Skip to main content <#main-content>
General Catalog <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/> General Catalog <https://
catalog.ucsd.edu/> UC San Diego <http://www.ucsd.edu/>

  *
    Search

    Search Term

Close Nav

  * Courses/Curricula/Faculty <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/front/courses.html>
  * About <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/about/index.html>
      o About UC San Diego <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/about/about-uc-san-
        diego/index.html>
      o Academic Integrity <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/academic-
        integrity.html>
      o Regulations & Policies <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/about/policies/
        index.html>
      o Calendars <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/about/calendars/index.html>
      o Additional Resources <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/about/additional-
        resources/index.html>
  * Undergraduate <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/undergraduate/index.html>
      o Undergraduate Education Overview <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/
        undergraduate/overview/index.html>
      o Colleges <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/undergraduate/colleges/
        index.html>
      o Admission <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/undergraduate/admission/
        index.html>
      o Degrees Offered <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/undergraduate/degrees-
        offered/index.html>
      o Degree Requirements <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/undergraduate/
        degree-requirements/index.html>
      o Registration <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/undergraduate-and-
        graduate-registration.html>
      o Graduation Requirements <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/undergraduate/
        graduation-requirements/index.html>
  * Graduate <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/graduate/index.html>
      o Graduate Financial <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/graduate/graduate-
        financial/index.html>
      o General Requirements for Higher Degrees <https://
        catalog.ucsd.edu/graduate/general-requirements/index.html>
      o Graduate Education Overview <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/graduate/
        overview/index.html>
      o Graduate Admission <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/graduate/admission/
        index.html>
      o Graduate & Professional Schools <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/
        graduate/graduate-professional-schools/index.html>
      o Degrees Offered <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/graduate/degrees-
        offered/index.html>
      o Registration <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/undergraduate-and-
        graduate-registration.html>
  * Archive <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/archive/index.html>

Toggle navigation
MENU
UC San Diego Logo

  * Courses/Curricula/Faculty <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/front/courses.html>
  * About <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/about/index.html>
      o About UC San Diego <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/about/about-uc-san-
        diego/index.html>
      o Academic Integrity <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/academic-
        integrity.html>
      o Regulations & Policies <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/about/policies/
        index.html>
      o Calendars <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/about/calendars/index.html>
      o Additional Resources <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/about/additional-
        resources/index.html>
  * Undergraduate <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/undergraduate/index.html>
      o Undergraduate Education Overview <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/
        undergraduate/overview/index.html>
      o Colleges <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/undergraduate/colleges/
        index.html>
      o Admission <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/undergraduate/admission/
        index.html>
      o Degrees Offered <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/undergraduate/degrees-
        offered/index.html>
      o Degree Requirements <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/undergraduate/
        degree-requirements/index.html>
      o Registration <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/undergraduate-and-
        graduate-registration.html>
      o Graduation Requirements <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/undergraduate/
        graduation-requirements/index.html>
  * Graduate <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/graduate/index.html>
      o Graduate Financial <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/graduate/graduate-
        financial/index.html>
      o General Requirements for Higher Degrees <https://
        catalog.ucsd.edu/graduate/general-requirements/index.html>
      o Graduate Education Overview <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/graduate/
        overview/index.html>
      o Graduate Admission <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/graduate/admission/
        index.html>
      o Graduate & Professional Schools <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/
        graduate/graduate-professional-schools/index.html>
      o Degrees Offered <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/graduate/degrees-
        offered/index.html>
      o Registration <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/undergraduate-and-
        graduate-registration.html>
  * Archive <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/archive/index.html>

  *
    Search Scope

    Search Term

2023-24 Catalog Interim Update: Winter

 1. HOME <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/index.html>
 2. curric <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/curric/index>
 3. Linguistics


  Linguistics

[ major <#major> | minor <#minor> <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/curric/LING-
ug.html> | graduate program <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/curric/LING-
gr.html> | courses <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/courses/LING.html> |
faculty <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/faculty/LING.html> ]

John Muir College
Applied Physics and Mathematics Building, Room 3101
http://ling.ucsd.edu <http://ling.ucsd.edu/>

/All courses, faculty listings, and curricular and degree requirements
described herein are subject to change or deletion without notice. /

In what ways do languages differ, and in what ways are all human
languages alike? These are the basic questions that the science of
linguistics seeks to answer.

In formulating hypotheses about language, it has been found that
languages have intricate structure at a number of different levels.
Phonetics studies the sounds of speech and how they are produced and
perceived. Phonology studies the principles by which the sounds of a
language are organized into a system and combined into syllables and
larger units. Morphology studies the principles by which smaller units
of meaning are combined into words. Syntax is the study of the
principles by which words are combined into larger units such as phrases
and sentences. Semantics studies meaning—the meanings of words and the
ways the meanings of words are related to the meanings of larger units
such as the phrase, the sentence, and the discourse. Linguists attempt
to discover to what extent the principles at each level vary across
languages, and to what extent they are universal. These principles apply
to both spoken languages and signed languages.

Because language provides a window into the human mind, linguistics
plays a central role in the study of human cognition and figures
prominently in the fields of cognitive science and psychology. We know,
for example, that children succeed in learning language relatively
quickly at a time when their other cognitive abilities are still
developing. The universal properties of human language that linguists
discover can be used to provide models of this acquisition process, to
explain why it occurs so rapidly, and to make specific predictions about
the way it unfolds. Second language acquisition and acquisition of
signed languages provide important windows into the acquisition process.
The results of linguistic research can also be tested directly in
computational models and experimental studies of how language is
represented and processed in the mind (psycholinguistics) and brain
(neurolinguistics). Language can also be studied in terms of its
function as a cognitive system shared by an entire society
(sociolinguistics); sociolinguists investigate the ways in which the
language use is affected by the social environment.

The Department of Linguistics offers a series of lower-division courses
designed to introduce students to the scientific study of language in
the broader perspective of a liberal arts education. These are LIGN 3
(Language as a Social and Cultural Phenomenon), LIGN 4 (Language as a
Cognitive System), LIGN 5 (The Linguistics of Invented Languages), LIGN
7 (Sign Language and Its Culture), LIGN 8 (Languages and Cultures in
America), and LIGN 17 (Making and Breaking Codes). These courses may be
used to satisfy the Marshall College disciplinary breadth requirement.
Lower-division linguistics courses may be used to satisfy the social
sciences requirement at Muir College and Revelle College, and they
partially fulfill the requirements for a program of concentration in
Warren College. In addition, certain linguistics courses satisfy the
American Cultures requirement in Revelle College and the cultural
diversity requirement in Muir College and Warren College. LIGN 17
(Making and Breaking Codes) satisfies the Thurgood Marshall
Computational Skills requirement in addition to the formal skills
requirement in Warren College and in the Human Development Program. This
course also satisfies the Structured Reasoning requirement in Sixth
College. Students should consult their college advising offices to
determine which linguistics courses satisfy these other requirements.

Linguistics courses are required for the International Studies—
Linguistics major, and are relevant to a wide range of other fields of
study at UC San Diego, including anthropology, cognitive science,
communication, computer science, human development, law and society,
psychology, and sociology, as well as areas such as African studies,
Chinese studies, critical gender studies, ethnic studies, Jewish
studies, Latin American studies, and others. In some cases, certain
linguistics courses count toward a major or minor in one of these
departments or programs. Students should consult with a faculty adviser
in linguistics and the other department or program when deciding on
their course of study.

Students are strongly encouraged to participate in the UC Education
Abroad Program (EAP), the Opportunities Abroad Program (OAP), or the
Global Seminars (GS) program. Students considering these options should
discuss their plans with the department undergraduate adviser before
going abroad. Detailed information on EAP/OAP/GS is found in this
catalog and at the Study Abroad UC San Diego website <http://
studyabroad.ucsd.edu/>.

The Department of Linguistics oversees the Linguistics Language Program,
which offers basic language instruction in Arabic, ASL, French, German,
Italian, Portuguese, and Spanish. Courses from the Language Program
satisfy general-education requirements, as well as the Department of
Linguistics language requirement. Graduate students who require a
reading knowledge of French or German may enroll in LIFR 11 or LIGM 11,
respectively.

The department also offers language instruction for individuals who grew
up in an English-speaking environment while speaking a different
language at home (currently Filipino, Hindi, Korean, Persian, and
Vietnamese; other languages including Arabic, Armenian, and Cantonese
may be added if student demand is sufficient). Instruction in these
languages is designed to raise students’ linguistic and cultural
competence to professional levels. Finally, directed self-instruction is
available for a wide variety of languages through LIDS 19.

*Note:* Please check with the department’s student affairs officers for
updates concerning programs and course offerings.


    The Major Program


      General Requirements

Every linguistics major (except the language studies major) must satisfy
the undergraduate language requirement and must successfully complete a
minimum of twelve upper-division courses. In addition to the general
major, the department offers a set of enriched major programs in various
specializations.

Except for LIGN 199, no course taken on a Pass/Not Pass basis may be
counted toward a linguistics major. No more than one quarter of LIGN 199
may be counted toward a linguistics major. For the general linguistics,
language and society, cognition and language, and speech and language
sciences majors, at least six out of the twelve upper-division
linguistics courses counted toward the major must be linguistics courses
taken in residence at UC San Diego. For the language studies major, at
least six out of the twelve upper division courses counted toward the
major must be taken at UC San Diego, and at least four of these must be
linguistics courses that satisfy Part A of the language studies course
requirements. A letter grade of C– or better is required for every
course counted toward a linguistics major, including courses taken to
satisfy the department’s undergraduate language requirement.


      Required Linguistics Courses

Linguistics 101 is required as an introduction to the field and serves
as the prerequisite to certain other courses. Students who choose a
linguistics major should enroll in it as early as possible.

Every major program in linguistics (except the language studies major)
must include the following required courses covering basic areas of the
field:

LIGN 101. Introduction to the Study of Language

LIGN 110. Phonetics

LIGN 111. Phonology

LIGN 120. Morphology

LIGN 121. Syntax

LIGN 130. Semantics

Students are advised to take these required courses as early as
possible, since the background they provide may be needed for other
upper-division linguistics courses. Check individual course listings for
prerequisite information.


      Linguistics Electives

LIGN 105. Law and Language

LIGN 108. Languages of Africa

LIGN 112. Speech Sounds and Speech Disorders

LIGN 113. Hearing Science and Hearing Disorders

LIGN 115. Phonology II

LIGN 118. The Language of Comics

LIGN 119. First and Second Language Learning: From Childhood Through
Adolescence

LIGN 125. Syntax II

LIGN 139. Field Methods

LIGN 141. Language Structures

LIGN 141. Language Structures

LIGN 142. Language Typology

LIGN 143. The Structure of Spanish

LIGN 144. Discourse Analysis: American Sign Language and Performing Arts

LIGN 145. Pidgins and Creoles

LIGN 146. Sociolinguistics in Deaf Communities

LIGN 148. Psycholinguistics of Gesture and Sign Languages

LIGN 150. Historical Linguistics

LIGN 152. Indigenous Languages of the Americas

LIGN 154. Language and Consciousness

LIGN 155. Evolution of Language

LIGN 160. Pragmatics

LIGN 165. Computational Linguistics

LIGN 167. Deep Learning for Natural Language Understanding

LIGN 168. Computational Speech Processing

LIGN 170. Psycholinguistics

LIGN 171. Child Language Acquisition

LIGN 172. Psycholinguistics Laboratory Projects

LIGN 173. Heritage Languages

LIGN 174. Gender and Language in Society

LIGN 175. Sociolinguistics

LIGN 176. Language of Politics and Advertising

LIGN 177. Multilingualism

LIGN 178. Spanish Sociolinguistics

LIGN 179. Second Language Acquisition Research

LIGN 180. Language Representation in the Brain

LIGN 181. Language Processing in the Brain

LIGN 187. Seminar on Special Topics


      Restricted Courses

LIGN 87. First-year Seminar (does not count as a linguistics elective)

LIGN 9GS. Sign Languages and Deaf Culture in the U.S. and France

LIGN 149GS. The Historical Roots of American Sign Language

LIGN 192. Senior Seminar in Linguistics (does not count as a linguistics
elective)

LIGN 195. Apprentice Teaching (may count once as a linguistics elective)

LIGN 197. Linguistics Internship

LIGN 199. Independent Study in Linguistics

LIGN 199H. Honors Independent Study in Linguistics


          Note to Revelle and Warren students:

/Revelle:/ For Revelle College only, the classification of the
linguistics major as humanities, natural science, or social science must
be determined on the basis of each student’s specific program. The
classification of the major program will in turn determine what areas
will be acceptable for the noncontiguous minor.

/Warren:/ For Warren College only, any courses taken in departments
other than linguistics may not overlap with the student’s outside
area(s) of concentration.


      Undergraduate Language Requirement

Linguistics majors must demonstrate proficiency in one foreign language.

Proficiency in a foreign language may be demonstrated in three ways:

 1. By passing the reading proficiency examination and the oral
    interview administered by the Department of Linguistics in French,
    German, Italian, Russian, or Spanish; or
 2. By successfully completing a course given at UC San Diego
    representing the fourth quarter (or beyond) of instruction in any
    single foreign language with a grade of C– or better; or
 3. By scoring four or greater on the Advanced Placement (AP) exam.

Students are encouraged to satisfy this requirement as early as possible
in order to be able to use the language for reference in linguistics
courses. Students with native language competence in a language other
than English may petition to have English count as satisfying the
proficiency requirement.


      General Major (12 courses)

The general major in linguistics requires satisfaction of the
undergraduate language requirement and successful completion of twelve
upper-division courses:

Six required linguistics courses

LIGN 101. Introduction to the Study of Language

LIGN 110. Phonetics

LIGN 111. Phonology

LIGN 120. Morphology

LIGN 121. Syntax

LIGN 130. Semantics

Five linguistics electives

One additional linguistics elective or upper-division course in another
department pertaining to the study of language. Courses currently
approved to satisfy this requirement include the electives for the
cognition and language major (except PSYC 105) and the electives for the
language and society major (*Note:* some of these courses may have
prerequisites) or a Heritage Language course offered in the Linguistics
Language Program (for example, LIHL 112/LIHL 112X).


      Specialized Majors

Every student with a specialized major must consult the faculty adviser
in the Department of Linguistics to have approved an individual
curricular plan to satisfy the major requirements for the option chosen.
Each specialized major requires satisfaction of the undergraduate
language requirement and successful completion of upper-division
requirements as specified below. The specialization will be reflected in
the wording of a degree, e.g., “BA in Linguistics (with Specialization
in Language and Society).”


        Cognition and Language (12 courses)

Six required linguistics courses

LIGN 101. Introduction to the Study of Language

LIGN 110. Phonetics

LIGN 111. Phonology

LIGN 120. Morphology

LIGN 121. Syntax

LIGN 130. Semantics

Four linguistics electives chosen from

LIGN 112. Speech Sounds and Speech Disorders

LIGN 113. Hearing Sciences and Hearing Disorders

LIGN 119. First and Second Language Learning: From Childhood Through
Adolescence

LIGN 148. Psycholinguistics of Sign Languages

LIGN 155. Evolution of Language

LIGN 165. Computational Linguistics

LIGN 170. Psycholinguistics

LIGN 171. Child Language Acquisition

LIGN 176. Language of Politics and Advertising

LIGN 179. Second Language Acquisition Research

LIGN 180. Language Representation in the Brain

LIGN 181. Language Processing in the Brain

Two additional courses from linguistics or other departments subject to
adviser approval.

Courses currently approved to satisfy this requirement include the
following. *Note:* some of these courses may have prerequisites.


          Linguistics

Any upper-division courses (except those used to fulfill requirements A
and B).


          Anthropology

ANBI 140. The Evolution of the Human Brain

ANBI 159. Biological and Cultural Perspectives on Intelligence

ANBI 173. Cognition in Animals and Humans


          Cognitive Science

COGS 101C. Language

COGS 102A. Distributed Cognition

COGS 102B. Cognitive Ethnography

COGS 107C. Cognitive Neuroscience

COGS 108D. Programming Methods for Cognitive Science

COGS 108E. Neural Network Models of Cognition I

COGS 108F. Advanced Programming Methods for Cognitive Science

COGS 151. Analogy and Conceptual Systems

COGS 154. Communication Disorders in Children and Adults

COGS 156. Language Development

COGS 170. Natural and Artificial Symbolic Representational Systems

COGS 184. Modeling the Evolution of Cognition

COGS 191. Laboratory Research


          Computer Science and Engineering

CSE 133. Information Retrieval


          Philosophy

PHIL 120. Symbolic Logic I

PHIL 134. Philosophy of Language

PHIL 136. Philosophy of Mind

PHIL 150. Philosophy of the Cognitive Sciences


          Psychology

PSYC 105. Introduction to Cognitive Psychology

PSYC 118A. Real-Time Examination of Language Processing

PSYC 118B. Real-Time Examination of Language Processing

PSYC 119. Psycholinguistics/Cognition Laboratory

PSYC 145. Psychology of Language


        Language and Society (12 courses)

Six required linguistics courses

LIGN 101. Introduction to the Study of Language

LIGN 110. Phonetics

LIGN 111. Phonology

LIGN 120. Morphology

LIGN 121. Syntax

LIGN 130. Semantics

Two appropriate upper-division courses in other departments (especially
the Departments of Anthropology, Communication, Cognitive Science, or
Sociology), selected in consultation with the faculty adviser for
language and society. Courses currently approved to satisfy this
requirement include the following. *Note: *some of these courses may
have prerequisites.

ANSC 118. Language and Culture

ANSC 122. Language in Society [formerly known as ANGN 149]

ANSC 162. Language, Identity, and Community [formerly known as ANGN 112]

COMM 100B. Communication, Culture, and Representation

COMM 168. Bilingual Communication

COMM 110T. Language, Literacy, and Communication: Language, Thought, and
Media

COMM 110P. Language, Literacy, and Communication: Language and Human
Communication

COMM 112G. Interaction and Mediation: Language and Globalization

SOCI 117/EDS 117. Language, Culture, and Education

SOCI 118E. Sociology of Language

SOCI 120T. Special Topics in Culture, Language, and Social Interaction

EDS 125. History, Politics, and Theory of Bilingual Education

One course in sociolinguistics (by approval of the faculty adviser, may
be taken in another department). Courses currently approved to satisfy
this requirement include the following. *Note: *some of these courses
may have prerequisites:

LIGN 174. Gender and Language in Society

LIGN 175. Sociolinguistics

LIGN 177. Multilingualism

Three linguistics electives. Courses particularly relevant to this
specialization are

LIGN 105. Law and Language

LIGN 174. Gender and Language in Society

LIGN 175. Sociolinguistics

LIGN 176. Language of Politics and Advertising

LIGN 177. Multilingualism


        Speech and Language Sciences (13 courses)

One lower-division statistics course to be chosen from

COGS 14B. Introduction to Statistical Analysis

PSYC 60. Introduction to Statistics

Six required linguistics courses

LIGN 101. Introduction to the Study of Language

LIGN 110. Phonetics

LIGN 111. Phonology

LIGN 120. Morphology

LIGN 121. Syntax

LIGN 130. Semantics

One course in speech, language, and hearing disorders

LIGN 112. Speech Sounds and Speech Disorders

LIGN 113. Hearing Science and Hearing Disorders

One course in language development and disorders to be chosen from

LIGN 119. First and Second Language Learning: From Childhood through
Adolescence

LIGN 171. Child Language Acquisition

LIGN 179. Second Language Acquisition Research

One course in neurobiology of language to be chosen from

LIGN 180. Language Representation in the Brain

LIGN 181. Language Processing in the Brain

Three speech and language sciences elective courses to be chosen from

COGS 107A. Neuroanatomy and Physiology

COGS 107C. Cognitive Neuroscience

COGS 154. Communication Disorders in Children and Adults

COGS 179. Electrophysiology of Cognition

COMM 168. Bilingual Communication

EDS 125. History, Politics, and Theory of Bilingual Education

ETHN 185. Discourse, Power, and Inequality

LIGN 119. First and Second Language Learning: From Childhood through
Adolescence

LIGN 146. Sociolinguistics in Deaf Communities

LIGN 148. Psycholinguistics of Sign Language

LIGN 160. Pragmatics

LIGN 170. Psycholinguistics

LIGN 171. Child Language Acquisition

LIGN 175. Sociolinguistics

LIGN 177. Multilingualism

LIGN 179. Second Language Acquisition Research

LIGN 180. Language Representation in the Brain

LIGN 181. Language Processing in the Brain

MUS 175. Musical Psychoacoustics

PSYC 105. Cognitive Psychology

PSYC 108. Cognitive Neuroscience

PSYC 128. Psychology of Reading

PSYC 138. Sound and Music Perception

SOC 117. Language, Culture, and Education

Exceptions: COGS 107C and PSYC 108 may not both be taken for credit
toward the major.


      Language Studies Major

*Students majoring in language studies must consult with the language
studies faculty adviser to approve an individual curricular plan. *

The language studies major is designed for students who wish to pursue
the study of a particular language from a variety of perspectives. To
this end, students will take courses in linguistics and literature, as
well as electives in linguistics, literature, culture, and area studies.
This major provides preparation for a variety of careers that make use
of second language skills. Depending on the elective emphasis, these
include international business/law, teaching, translation, interpreting,
linguistics, and foreign service. Each language studies major will
specialize in one *language of concentration*. In principle, this could
be any language other than English. However, some languages may require
that some course work be completed outside UC San Diego. *Hence, it is
recommended that language studies majors consider a year abroad.
*Students whose language of concentration is *American Sign Language*
will need to consult the faculty adviser for individualized
requirements; these students may also consider an exchange year at
Gallaudet University.


      Requirements


        Lower-division preparation:

  * Two years of language instruction in the language of concentration,
    or equivalent proficiency
  * Lower-division prerequisites for upper-division courses in the
    literature of the language of concentration


        Upper-division requirements:

*Note: *at least two of the upper-division courses must be conducted in
the language of concentration. Students are encouraged to increase their
academic exposure to their language of concentration by taking one-unit
seminars in the language and by participating in the EAP program.

 1. Six upper-division linguistics courses, as follows:

    LIGN 101. Introduction to Linguistics

    Three courses chosen from
    LIGN 110. Phonetics
    LIGN 111. Phonology
    LIGN 120. Morphology
    LIGN 121. Syntax
    LIGN 130. Semantics
    LIGN 145. Pidgins and Creoles
    LIGN 150. Historical Linguistics
    “Structure of” language of concentration course (e.g., LIGN 143,
    Structure of Spanish). If no such course is available, the student
    must consult with the undergraduate adviser regarding a possible
    substitution.

    One additional upper-division LIGN course.
 2. Two upper-division courses in the literature of the language of
    concentration
 3.

    Four additional upper-division courses that deal with general
    linguistics, the language of concentration (e.g., literature), or
    the corresponding culture/area studies (e.g., anthropology,
    economics, history, political science, sociology), subject to
    approval of the faculty adviser.

    Approved courses for this requirement include the following. *Note:*
    some of these courses may have prerequisites.

/Linguistics:/ Any upper-division courses (except those used to fulfill
requirement A).

/Literature: /Any upper-division courses related to the language of
concentration (except those used to fulfill requirement B).

/Area Studies: /Approved courses are listed by language of
concentration; other languages of concentration are possible in
principle, but probably require course work outside of UC San Diego.


          Arabic

ANSC 133. Peoples and Cultures of the Middle East

ECON 165. Middle East Economics

HINE 114. History of the Islamic Middle East

HINE 118. The Middle East in the Twentieth Century

HINE 119. Contemporary Middle East Conflicts

POLI 121B. Politics in Israel


          ASL

See linguistics undergraduate adviser for options.


          Chinese

ANRG 170/ANSC 136. Traditional Chinese Society

ANRG 173/ANSC 137. Chinese Popular Religion

ANSC 136. Traditional Chinese Society

ANSC 137. Chinese Popular Religion

HIEA 122. Late Imperial Chinese Culture and Society

HIEA 125. Women and Gender in East Asia

HIEA 126. The Silk Road in Chinese and Japanese History

HIEA 129. Faces of the Chinese Past

HIEA 130. End of the Chinese Empire, 1800–1911

HIEA 131. China in War and Revolution: 1911–1949

HIEA 132. Mao’s China, 1949–1976

HIEA 133. Twentieth-Century China: Cultural History

HIEA 134. History of Thought and Religion in China: Confucianism

HIEA 137. Women and Family in Chinese History

HIEA 138. Women and the Chinese Revolution

HIEA 163/263. Cinema and Society in Twentieth-Century China

HIEA 164/264. Seminar in Late Imperial Chinese History

HIEA 166/266. Creating Ming Histories

HIEA 168/268. Topics in Classical and Medieval Chinese History

HIEA 171/271. Society and Culture in Premodern China

POLI 113A. East Asian Thought in Comparative Perspective

POLI 113B. Chinese and Japanese Political Thought I

POLI 130B. Politics in the People’s Republic of China

POLI 131C. The Chinese Revolution

POLI 133D. Political Institutions of East Asian Countries

SOCI 188G. Chinese Society

VIS 127B. Arts of China

VIS 127C. Arts of Modern China

VIS 127D. Early Chinese Painting

VIS 127E. Later Chinese Painting

VIS 127GS. Issues in Modern and Contemporary Chinese Art

VIS 127N. Twentieth-Century Art in China and Japan


          French

HIEU 129. Paris, Past and Present

HIEU 130. Europe in the Eighteenth Century

HIEU 131. The French Revolution: 1789–1814

HIEU 142. European Intellectual History, 1780–1870

POLI 120C. Politics in France

TDHT 105. French Comedy


          German

HIEU 130. Europe in the Eighteenth Century

HIEU 142. European Intellectual History, 1780–1870

HIEU 143. European Intellectual History, 1870–1945

HIEU 145. The Holocaust as Public History

HIEU 154. Modern German History: From Bismarck to Hitler

HIEU 158. Why Hitler? How Auschwitz?

HIEU 172/272. Comparative European Fascism

HIEU 174/274. The Holocaust: A Psychological Approach

PHIL 106. Kent

PHIL 107. Hegel

POLI 120B. The German Political System

POLI 120D. Germany: Before, During, and After Division

SOCI 178. The Holocaust


          Hebrew

ANRG 150/ANAR 142. The Rise and Fall of Ancient Israel

HIEU 159. Three Centuries of Zionism, 1648–1948

HIEU 176/276. Politics in the Jewish Past

HINE 162/262. Anthropology and the Hebrew Bible

HINE 170. Special Topics in Jewish History

HINE 186. Special Topics in Middle Eastern History

POLI 121. Government and Politics of the Middle East

POLI 121B. Politics in Israel

SOCI 188F. Modern Jewish Societies and Israeli Society


          Italian

HIEU 120. The Renaissance in Italy

HIEU 172/272. Comparative European Fascism

POLI 120I. Politics in Italy

TDHT 104. Italian Comedy

VIS 122AN. Renaissance Art

VIS 122CN. Leonardo da Vinci in Context

VIS 122D. Michelangelo

VIS 122F. Leonardo’s La Gioconda


          Japanese

HIEA 111. Japan: Twelfth to Mid-Nineteenth Centuries

HIEA 112. Japan: From the Mid-Nineteenth Century through the US Occupation

HIEA 113. The Fifteen-Year War in Asia and the Pacific

HIEA 114. Postwar Japan

HIEA 115. Social and Cultural History of Twentieth-Century Japan

HIEA 116. Japan-U.S. Relations

HEA 117. Ghosts in Japan

HIEA 125. Women and Gender in East Asia

HIEA 126. The Silk Road in Chinese and Japanese History

POLI 113A. East Asian Thought in Comparative Perspective

POLI 113B. Chinese and Japanese Political Thought I

POLI 133A. Japanese Politics: A Developmental Perspective

POLI 133D. Political Institutions of East Asian Countries

VIS 127F. Japanese Buddhist Art

VIS 127N. Twentieth-Century Art in China and Japan

VIS 127P. Arts of Japan

VIS 127Q. Japanese Painting and Prints


          Russian

HIEU 134. The Formation of the Russian Empire, 800–1855

HIEU 178. Soviet History

POLI 126AB. Politics and Economics in Eastern Europe

POLI 130AA. The Soviet Successor States

POLI 130AD. The Politics of the Russian Revolution


          Spanish

ANAR 156. The Archaeology of South America

ANSC 131. Urban Cultures in Latin America

ANSC 142. Anthropology of Latin America

COMM 142. Cuban Cinema

COMM 155. Latino Space, Place, and Culture

COMM 104G. Comparative Media Systems: Latin America and the Caribbean

COMM 140. Cinema in Latin America

ECON 162. Economics of Mexico

ETHN 116. The United States–Mexico Border in Comparative Perspective

ETHN 129/USP 135. Asian and Latina Immigrant Workers in the Global Economy

ETHN 132. Chicano Dramatic Literature

ETHN 133. Hispanic American Dramatic Literature

ETHN 135A. Early Latino/a-Chicano/a Cultural Production: 1848–1960

ETHN 135B. Contemporary Latino/a- Chicano/a Cultural Production: 1960 to
Present

ETHN 136. Topics in Chicano/a-Latino/a Cultures

ETHN 138. Chicano/a and Latino/a Poetry

ETHN 145. Spanish Language in the United States

ETHN 148. Latino/a and Chicano/a Literature

ETHN 180. Topics in Mexican American History

HIEU 151. Spain since 1808

HILA 100. Conquest and Empire of the Americas

HILA 101. Nation-State Formation, Ethnicity, and Violence in Latin America

HILA 102. Latin America in the Twentieth Century

HILA 103. Revolution in Modern Latin America

HILA 104. Modern US–Latin American Relations

HILA 114. Dictatorship in Latin America

HILA 121A. History of Brazil through 1889

HILA 121B. History of Brazil, 1889 to Present

HILA 122. Cuba: From Colony to Socialist Republic

HILA 123. The Incas and Their Ancestors

HILA 124A. History of Women and Gender in Latin America

HILA 126. From Columbus to Castro: Caribbean Culture and Society

HILA 131. A History of Mexico

HILA 132. Modern Mexico: From Revolution to Drug War Violence

HILA 134. Indians of Colonial Latin America

HILA 161. History of Women in Latin America

HILA 162. Special Topics in Latin American History

HILA 163/263. The History of Chile, 1880–Present

HILA 164/264. Women’s Work and Family Life in Latin America

HILA 167/267. Scholarship on Latin American History in the Colonial Period

HILA 168/268. Scholarship on Latin American History in the Nineteenth
Century

HILA 169/269. Scholarship on Latin American History in the Twentieth Century

LATI 120. Special Topics in Latin American Studies

THHS 109. African Heritage in Contemporary Drama: African, Caribbean,
and African American

TDHT 110. Chicanx Theatre

TDHT 111. Hispanic American Dramatic Literature

POLI 134AA. Comparative Politics of Latin America

POLI 134B. Politics in Mexico

POLI 134D. Selected Topics in Latin American Politics

POLI 134I. Politics in the Southern Cone of Latin America

POLI 146A. The U.S. and Latin America: Political and Economic Relations

SOCI 182. Ethnicity and Indigenous Peoples in Latin America

SOCI 188D. Latin America: Society and Politics

VIS 126P. Latin American Art: Modern to Postmodern, 1890–1950

VIS 126Q. Latin American Art: Modern to Postmodern, 1950–Present


      Honors Program

The department offers an honors program for outstanding students. To
apply for the honors program, students must have a 3.75 or greater GPA
in linguistics (3.25 overall) at the time of application, choose a
research topic of interest on which they can write a thesis, identify
and meet with a faculty member to serve as an honors adviser, and submit
an application once they have a topic and an adviser. The application
will consist of a one-page proposal with a description of the research
topic that the student aims to pursue for the honors program, prepared
in consultation with the selected honors adviser, and a proposed program
of supervised study during the student’s final three quarters, also
prepared in consultation with the selected honors adviser. This program
shall include at least one relevant course taken for a letter grade
(which can be taken as part of the twelve required courses for the
major) and LIGN 199H.

The application must be ideally submitted *at least three full quarters
before the student’s intended graduation date* for approval by the
department faculty by the end of that quarter. For example, if the
student is planning to graduate in spring 2024, the student will want to
work on and submit the application in spring 2023. If the student is a
winter graduate, the student will want to apply in or before the prior
winter. Once approved, the student will begin a substantial research
project, under the supervision of the honors adviser, culminating in an
honors thesis. The honors thesis is an original research paper of
approximately 30–40 pages. Upon successful completion of the
requirements the designation “with distinction,” “with high
distinction,” or “with highest distinction” will appear on the student’s
diploma.


      Independent Study and Directed Group Study in Linguistics for Majors

Upon presentation of a written study proposal or project, and with the
consent of a faculty member who would serve as the adviser for the
project, linguistics majors with at least a 3.5 GPA in the major courses
may request permission to undertake independent study in linguistics
(LIGN 199). No more than one such course (to be taken Pass/Not Pass) may
count toward the major.


        The Global Concentration Program

The Global Concentration in Linguistics is a cluster of courses with an
international or global focus. The Global Concentration can be applied
to any of the four linguistics majors. Students must satisfy the three
requirements listed below to receive “Global Concentration” recognition
on their academic transcripts.


          Requirement 1: A minimum of eight units earned through study
          abroad, of which a minimum of four units would count toward
          the major

These units may be earned through the Education Abroad Program,
Opportunities Abroad Program or Global Seminars, and must have academic
transcripts. Students petition to have courses counted toward their
Global Concentration when they return from study abroad, just as they
would petition to have courses count toward their major or minor. UC San
Diego Global Seminars constitute eight units, and fulfill this criterion
without the need for petition.


          Requirement 2: Demonstration of proficiency in a second
          language through the fourth quarter of university-level
          instruction, or its equivalent

Global Concentrations at UC San Diego require second language
proficiency. All linguistics majors must independently satisfy this
requirement as part of the general requirements for a major in linguistics.


          Requirement 3: A minimum of two courses with department-
          identified global content

The following linguistics courses are approved global content courses.
This list includes two study abroad Global Seminar (GS) courses. See UC
San Diego Global Seminars Program <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/curric/
GS.html> for more information.


            Global Content Linguistics courses

LIGN 108. Languages of Africa

LIGN 141. Language Structures

LIGN 143. The Structure of Spanish

LIGN 177. Multilingualism

LIGN 157GS. Roma and Gitanos

LIGN 187GS. The Art, Language, and Culture of Flamenco

Courses taken while on study abroad may be allowed to satisfy the
department global content requirement. Students must petition study
abroad courses to satisfy this requirement.


        General Linguistics, Cognition and Language, Language and
        Society Majors

Some courses from other department are preapproved to count toward
General Linguistics, Cognition and Language, and Language and Society
majors. The following select courses from that list qualify as global
content courses. (Students may petition additional courses in other
departments to count if they are judged to have sufficient global content.)


            Global Content language-related courses in other departments

ANSC 162. Language, Identity, and Community

ANSC 116. Languages of the Americas: Mayan

ANSC 118. Language and Culture

ANSC 122. Language in Society

COMM 112G. Interaction and Mediation: Language and Globalization


        Language Studies Major

Literature courses on the language of concentration and preapproved area
studies courses (listed above) qualify as global content courses, with
the exception of COMM 169: Deaf Culture in the United States.


    The Minor Program

The /Linguistics/ minor consists of LIGN 101, plus six additional
courses in linguistics, at least four of which must be upper division.

For all courses counted toward the linguistics minor, the student must
receive letter grades of C– or better. Courses counted toward the minor
may not be taken on a Pass/Not Pass basis, except LIGN 199. Only one
quarter of LIGN 199 may be counted toward the minor.

The /Language Studies /minor consists of seven courses, at least five of
which must be upper division:

/Literature: /One upper-division literature course is required in the
language of concentration. This will require proficiency as well as
lower-division prerequisites. Therefore, the lower-division courses of
the minor may consist of prerequisites for the upper-division literature
requirement. American Sign Language students may substitute a
nonliterature upper-division elective with approval of the faculty adviser.

/Linguistics: /LIGN 101 is required. In addition, students must take a
“Structure of” language of concentration course (e.g., LIGN 143.
Structure of Spanish). If no such course is available, the student must
consult with the undergraduate adviser regarding a possible substitution.

/Other: /Two additional courses that deal with general linguistics, the
language of concentration (e.g., literature), or the corresponding
culture, subject to approval of the faculty adviser are required.

The/Speech and Language Sciences /minor consists of seven courses and
one lower-division statistics course.

For all courses counted toward the speech and language sciences minor,
the student must receive letter grades of C– or better. Courses counted
toward the minor may not be taken on a Pass/Not Pass basis, except LIGN
199. Only one quarter of LIGN 199 may be counted toward the minor.

One lower-division statistics course to be chosen from

COGS 14B. Introduction to Statistical Analysis

PSYC 60. Introduction to Statistics

Seven courses

 1. LIGN 101. Introduction to the Study of Language
 2. LIGN 110. Phonetics
 3. LIGN 111. Phonology
 4. LIGN 112. Speech Sounds and Speech Disorders or LIGN 113. Hearing
    Science and Hearing Disorders
 5. One course in language and development disorders to be chosen from
    LIGN 119. First and Second Language Learning: From Childhood through
    Adolescence
    LIGN 171. Child Language Acquisition
    LIGN 179. Second Language Acquisition Research
 6. One course in neurobiology of language to be chosen from
    LIGN 180. Language Representation in the Brain
    LIGN 181. Language Processing in the Brain
 7. One speech and language sciences elective course to be chosen from
    COGS 107A. Neuroanatomy and Physiology
    COGS 107C. Cognitive Neuroscience
    COGS 154. Communication Disorders in Children and Adults
    COGS 179. Electrophysiology of Cognition
    COMM 168. Bilingual Communication
    EDS 125. History, Politics, and Theory of Bilingual Education
    ETHN 185. Discourse, Power, and Inequality
    LIGN 4. Language as a Cognitive System
    LIGN 7. Sign Language and Its Culture
    LIGN 119. First and Second Language Learning: From Childhood through
    Adolescence
    LIGN 120. Morphology
    LIGN 121. Syntax
    LIGN 130. Semantics
    LIGN 146. Sociolinguistics in Deaf Communities
    LIGN 148. Psycholinguistics of Sign Language
    LIGN 160. Pragmatics
    LIGN 171. Child Language Acquisition
    LIGN 175. Sociolinguistics
    LIGN 177. Multilingualism
    LIGN 179. Second Language Acquisition Research
    LIGN 180. Language Representation in the Brain
    LIGN 181. Language Processing in the Brain
    MUS 175. Musical Psychoacoustics
    PSYC 105. Cognitive Psychology
    PSYC 108. Introduction to Cognitive Neuroscience
    PSYC 128. Psychology of Reading
    PSYC 138. Sound and Music Perception
    SOC 117. Language, Culture, and Education

Exception: COGS 107C and PSYC 108 may not both be taken for credit
toward the minor.

UC San Diego 9500 Gilman Dr. La Jolla, CA 92093 (858) 534-2230
Copyright © 2024 Regents of the University of California. All rights
reserved.

  * Accessibility <https://accessibility.ucsd.edu/report-a-concern/
    index.html>
  * Privacy Policy <https://ucsd.edu/about/privacy-policy.html>
  * Terms of Use <https://ucsd.edu/about/terms-of-use.html>
  * Feedback <https://act.ucsd.edu/cwp/feedback/tool/cwo>

UCSD homepage <https://ucsd.edu/>

