Skip to main content <#main-content>
General Catalog <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/> General Catalog <https://
catalog.ucsd.edu/> UC San Diego <http://www.ucsd.edu/>

  *
    Search

    Search Term

Close Nav

  * Courses/Curricula/Faculty <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/front/courses.html>
  * About <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/about/index.html>
      o About UC San Diego <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/about/about-uc-san-
        diego/index.html>
      o Academic Integrity <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/academic-
        integrity.html>
      o Regulations & Policies <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/about/policies/
        index.html>
      o Calendars <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/about/calendars/index.html>
      o Additional Resources <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/about/additional-
        resources/index.html>
  * Undergraduate <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/undergraduate/index.html>
      o Undergraduate Education Overview <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/
        undergraduate/overview/index.html>
      o Colleges <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/undergraduate/colleges/
        index.html>
      o Admission <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/undergraduate/admission/
        index.html>
      o Degrees Offered <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/undergraduate/degrees-
        offered/index.html>
      o Degree Requirements <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/undergraduate/
        degree-requirements/index.html>
      o Registration <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/undergraduate-and-
        graduate-registration.html>
      o Graduation Requirements <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/undergraduate/
        graduation-requirements/index.html>
  * Graduate <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/graduate/index.html>
      o Graduate Financial <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/graduate/graduate-
        financial/index.html>
      o General Requirements for Higher Degrees <https://
        catalog.ucsd.edu/graduate/general-requirements/index.html>
      o Graduate Education Overview <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/graduate/
        overview/index.html>
      o Graduate Admission <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/graduate/admission/
        index.html>
      o Graduate & Professional Schools <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/
        graduate/graduate-professional-schools/index.html>
      o Degrees Offered <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/graduate/degrees-
        offered/index.html>
      o Registration <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/undergraduate-and-
        graduate-registration.html>
  * Archive <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/archive/index.html>

Toggle navigation
MENU
UC San Diego Logo

  * Courses/Curricula/Faculty <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/front/courses.html>
  * About <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/about/index.html>
      o About UC San Diego <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/about/about-uc-san-
        diego/index.html>
      o Academic Integrity <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/academic-
        integrity.html>
      o Regulations & Policies <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/about/policies/
        index.html>
      o Calendars <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/about/calendars/index.html>
      o Additional Resources <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/about/additional-
        resources/index.html>
  * Undergraduate <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/undergraduate/index.html>
      o Undergraduate Education Overview <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/
        undergraduate/overview/index.html>
      o Colleges <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/undergraduate/colleges/
        index.html>
      o Admission <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/undergraduate/admission/
        index.html>
      o Degrees Offered <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/undergraduate/degrees-
        offered/index.html>
      o Degree Requirements <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/undergraduate/
        degree-requirements/index.html>
      o Registration <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/undergraduate-and-
        graduate-registration.html>
      o Graduation Requirements <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/undergraduate/
        graduation-requirements/index.html>
  * Graduate <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/graduate/index.html>
      o Graduate Financial <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/graduate/graduate-
        financial/index.html>
      o General Requirements for Higher Degrees <https://
        catalog.ucsd.edu/graduate/general-requirements/index.html>
      o Graduate Education Overview <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/graduate/
        overview/index.html>
      o Graduate Admission <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/graduate/admission/
        index.html>
      o Graduate & Professional Schools <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/
        graduate/graduate-professional-schools/index.html>
      o Degrees Offered <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/graduate/degrees-
        offered/index.html>
      o Registration <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/undergraduate-and-
        graduate-registration.html>
  * Archive <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/archive/index.html>

  *
    Search Scope

    Search Term

2023-24 Catalog Interim Update: Winter

 1. HOME <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/index.html>
 2. courses <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/courses/index>
 3. Linguistics


  Linguistics

[ undergraduate program <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/curric/LING-ug.html> |
graduate program <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/curric/LING-gr.html> |
<https://catalog.ucsd.edu/courses/LING.html> faculty <https://
catalog.ucsd.edu/faculty/LING.html> ]

/All courses, faculty listings, and curricular and degree requirements
described herein are subject to change or deletion without notice. /


    Courses

/For course descriptions not found in the /UC San Diego General Catalog
2023–24/, please contact the department for more information./

*Note: *Not all courses are offered every year. It is essential that
students consult the linguistics adviser when planning their degree
programs.


    Linguistics


      Lower Division

LIGN 3. Language as a Social and Cultural Phenomenon (4)

The role of language in thought, myth, ritual, advertising, politics,
and the law. Language variation, change, and loss; multilingualism,
pidginization and creolization; language planning, standardization, and
prescriptivism; writing systems. */Prerequisites:/* none.

LIGN 4. Language as a Cognitive System (4)

Fundamental issues in language and cognition. Differences between animal
communication, sign systems, and human language; origins and evolution
of language; neural basis of language; language acquisition in children
and adults. */Prerequisites:/* none.

LIGN 5. The Linguistics of Invented Languages (4)

Introduction to the study of language through the investigation of
invented languages, whether conscious (Elvish, Klingon, Esperanto) or
unconscious (creoles, twin/sibling languages). Students will participate
in the invention of a language fragment. Topics discussed include
language structure, history, culture, and writing systems. */
Prerequisites:/* none.

LIGN 6. Computers and Language (4)

Computers and “virtual assistants” are increasingly expected to
understand, process, and interact with us using natural human language.
This course will focus on the difficult computational and linguistic
problems that working with natural language presents; and learn to
implement some of the basic computational techniques used to model,
process, and produce human language in Python.

LIGN 7. Sign Languages and Their Cultures (4)

Deaf history since the eighteenth century. The structure of American
Sign Language and comparison with oral languages. ASL poetry and
narrative and Deaf people’s system of cultural knowledge. Basic
questions concerning the nature of language and its relation to culture.
*/Prerequisites:/* none. Satisfies DEI requirement.

LIGN 8. Languages and Cultures in America (4)

Language in American culture and society. Standard and nonstandard
English in school, media, pop culture, politics; bilingualism and
education; cultural perception of language issues over time; languages
and cultures in the “melting pot,” including Native American, Hispanic,
African American, Deaf. */Prerequisites:/* none. Satisfies DEI requirement.

LIGN 9GS. Sign Languages and Deaf Culture in the U.S. and France

This course explores and compares the use of sign language and its role
in the cultures of deaf people in the U.S. and France. Through signed
discussion and viewing language samples, students become acquainted with
how introductions, descriptions, numbers, fingerspelling, and more are
commonly communicated in the two countries and gain practical experience
in signing both ASL and Langue des Signes Francaise (LSF). Program or
materials fees may apply. */Prerequisites/*/: /student must apply and be
accepted to the global seminars program.

LIGN 17. Making and Breaking Codes (4)

A rigorous analysis of symbolic systems and their interpretations.
Students will learn to encode and decode information using progressively
more sophisticated methods; topics covered include ancient and modern
phonetic writing systems, hieroglyphics, computer languages, and ciphers
(secret codes). */Prerequisites:/* none.

LIGN 42. The Linguistics of Memes (4)

A great meme can perfectly capture your feelings, sum up a situation,
leave you laughing, or just add a bit of spice to life. In this course,
we’ll look at memes as an aspect of modern communication, discussing the
concept of a “meme,” the life cycle of a meme, the social nature of
memes, and more, all explored using tools and concepts from language and
the field of linguistics. This study will show that memes aren’t just
silliness, but a rich communicative medium for a modern multimedia era.

LIGN 87. First-year Student Seminar (1)

The First-year Seminar Program is designed to provide new students with
the opportunity to explore an intellectual topic with a faculty member
in a small seminar setting. First-year seminars can be offered in all
campus departments and undergraduate colleges, and topics vary from
quarter to quarter.


      Upper Division

LIGN 101. Introduction to the Study of Language (4)

Language is what makes us human, but how does it work? This course
focuses on speech sounds and sound patterns, how words are formed,
organized into sentences, and understood, how language changes, and how
it is learned. */Prerequisites:/* none.

LIGN 105. Law and Language (4)

The interpretation of language in understanding the law: 1) the language
of courtroom interaction (hearsay, jury instructions); 2) written legal
language (contracts, ambiguity, legal fictions); 3) language-based
issues in the law (First Amendment, libel and slander). */
Prerequisites:/* none.

LIGN 108. Languages of Africa (4)

Africa is home to an astonishing variety of languages. This course
investigates the characteristics of the major language families as well
as population movements and language contact, and how governments
attempt to regulate language use. */Prerequisites:/* none.

LIGN 110. Phonetics (4)

The study of sounds that are used in human languages. How speech sounds
are physically produced; acoustics of speech; speech perception;
practical training in phonetic transcription and in interpreting visual
representations of the acoustic signal. The class covers both English
and its dialects and languages other than English. */Prerequisites:/*
LIGN 101, concurrent enrollment in LIGN 101, or consent of instructor.

LIGN 111. Phonology I (4)

Why does one language sound different from another? This course analyzes
how languages organize sounds into different patterns, how those sounds
interact, and how they fit into larger units, such as syllables. Focus
on a wide variety of languages and problem solving. */Prerequisites:/*
LIGN 110.

LIGN 112. Speech Sounds and Speech Disorders (4)

How do we measure differences in the way sounds are produced and
perceived? This course focuses on measuring and analyzing the acoustic
and auditory properties of sounds as they occur in nonpathological and
pathological speech. */Prerequisites:/* LIGN 110 or consent of instructor.

LIGN 113. Hearing Science and Hearing Disorders (4)

An introductory course focused on the hearing component of speech,
speech perception, and language disorders, this course gives students an
introduction to the anatomy and function of human hearing, the
principles and practice of audiology, and the modern methods of
addressing hearing loss in patients like hearing aids and cochlear
implants.*//Prerequisites://* LIGN 101 and LIGN 110.

LIGN 115. Phonology II (4)

How are phonological systems organized, and what generalizations can be
made about the phonological patterns found across languages? Exploration
of advanced concepts in phonological theory through the analysis of
cross-linguistic phenomena. Emphasis on empirical justification and
argumentation. *//Prerequisites://* LIGN 111.

LIGN 118. The Language of Comics (4)

How do we understand comic strips, comic books, and manga? We will
examine the cognitive structures underlying comics, showing that this
visual language of drawing and sequential images is understood similarly
to spoken and signed languages. Recommended preparation: LIGN 101. *//
Prerequisites://* upper-division standing.

LIGN 119. First and Second Language Learning: From Childhood through
Adolescence (4)

(Same as EDS 119) An examination of how human language learning ability
develops and changes over the first two decades of life, including
discussion of factors that may affect this ability. */Prerequisites:/*
upper-division standing or consent of instructor.

LIGN 120. Morphology (4)

How do some languages express with one word complex meanings that
English needs several words to express? Discovery of underlying
principles of word formation through problem solving and analysis of
data from a wide variety of languages. */Prerequisites:/* LIGN 101 or
consent of instructor.

LIGN 121. Syntax I (4)

What universal principles determine how words combine into phrases and
sentences? Introduction to research methods and results. Emphasis on how
argumentation in problem-solving can be used in the development of
theories of language. */Prerequisites:/* LIGN 101 or consent of instructor.

LIGN 125. Syntax II (4)

How are syntactic systems organized, and what generalizations can be
made about the syntactic patterns found across languages? Exploration of
advanced concepts in syntactic theory through the analysis of cross-
linguistic phenomena. Emphasis on empirical justification and
argumentation.*//Prerequisites://* LIGN 121.

LIGN 130. Semantics (4)

Introduction to the formal study of meaning. What is the meaning of a
word? What is the meaning of a sentence? Which role does the context
play in determining linguistic meaning? */Prerequisites:/* LIGN 101 or
consent of instructor.

LIGN 139. Field Methods (4)

Methods and practice of gathering, processing, and analyzing data based
on working with a native speaker of a language. Students gain experience
in learning to discriminate and transcribe sounds and analyze
grammatical features from their own collected data. Ethical and
practical issues of working with native speakers and language
communities are addressed. May be taken for credit up to two times.
Recommended preparation: LIGN 111, LIGN 120, LIGN 121. *//
Prerequisites://* LIGN 101 and LIGN 110.

LIGN 141. Language Structures (4)

Detailed investigation of the structure of one or more languages. May be
repeated for credit as topics vary. *//Prerequisites://* LIGN 101 or
consent of instructor.

LIGN 143. The Structure of Spanish (4)

Surveys aspects of Spanish phonetics, phonology, morphology, and syntax.
Topics include dialect differences between Latin American and Peninsular
Spanish (both from a historical and contemporary viewpoint), gender
classes, verbal morphology, and clause structure. */Prerequisites:/*
LIGN 101 or consent of instructor.

LIGN 144. Discourse Analysis: American Sign Language and Performing Arts (4)

This course provides a discourse-centered examination of ASL verbal
arts: rhyme, meter, rhythm, handedness, non-manual signals, and spatial
mapping; creation of scene and mood; properties of character, dialogue,
narration, and voice; cultural tropes; poetic constructions in every
genre; transcription, body memory, and performance. The course will be
conducted entirely in ASL with no spoken English. */Prerequisites:/*
LISL 1C and LISL 1CX.

LIGN 146. Sociolinguistics in Deaf Communities (4)

This course provides an examination of sociolinguistic research on Deaf
communities throughout the world, including sociohistorical contexts for
phonological, lexical, and syntactic variation, contact between
languages, multilingualism, language policies, and planning, second
language learning, language attitudes, and discourse analysis of
specific social contexts. The course will be conducted entirely in ASL
with no spoken English. */Prerequisites:/* LISL 1C and LISL 1CX.

LIGN 148. The Psycholinguistics of Gesture and Sign Languages (4)

The study of how sign languages are structured, and how they are
understood and produced by adults. Topics include the contrast between
gesture and language, sign language acquisition, brain processing,
sociolinguistics, and the role of sign language in reading. */
Prerequisites:/ *LIGN 101 or LISL 1C/1CX.

LIGN 149GS. The Historical Roots of American Sign Language (4)

Emphasizing linguistic evidence and historical documents, this course
examines the roots of ASL with particular focus on contributions from
Langue des Signes Francaise, Native American Sign Language, Black ASL,
and Hawaiian Sign Language. Topics include illustrated and descriptive
records documenting the linguistics of each language, and similarities
and differences among the varieties. Program or materials fees may
apply. */Prerequisites/*/: /student must apply and be accepted to the
global seminars program. Satisfies DEI requirement.

LIGN 150. Historical Linguistics (4)

Language is constantly changing. This course investigates the nature of
language change, how to determine a language’s history, its relationship
to other languages, and the search for common ancestors or
“protolanguage.” */Prerequisites:/* LIGN 101 or consent of instructor.

LIGN 152. Indigenous Languages of the Americas (4)

This course is an introduction to the study of the indigenous languages
of the Americas. Its goals are to offer orientation in a broad field and
to prepare students for possible future research. Topics covered include
grammatical structures, genetic classification, characteristics of major
language families, and factors affecting language use and mother tongue
transmission of these languages in contemporary societies. Recommended
preparation: LIGN 101.

LIGN 154. Language and Consciousness (4)

Origins of linguistic analysis (phonetics, phonology, morphology,
thematic and grammatical relations, lexical semantics) in ancient India,
history of naturalism vs. conventionalism, sound symbolism, relationship
of language with myth and ritual, linguistic relativism, physical
effects of language, metaphysical approaches to language. *//
Prerequisites://* LIGN 101.

LIGN 155. Evolution of Language (4)

History of thought on language origins, genetic, neural, anatomical, and
gestural theories of language evolution in relation to prior hominid and
other species, the role of generational differences in language
acquisition, and computational models.*/Prerequisites:/* upper-division
standing or consent of instructor.

LIGN 160. Pragmatics (4)

An introduction to the context-dependent aspects of language meaning.
Topics include given versus new information, Gricean maxims and rules of
conversation, presupposition, implicature, reference and cognitive
status, discourse coherence and structure, and speech acts. */
Prerequisites:/* LIGN 101 or consent of instructor.

LIGN 165. Computational Linguistics (4)

An introduction to the fundamental concepts of computational
linguistics, in which we study natural language syntax and semantics
from an interpretation perspective, describe methods for programming
computer systems to perform such interpretation, and survey applications
of computational linguistics technology. */Prerequisites:/* none.

LIGN 167. Deep Learning for Natural Language Understanding (4)

An introduction to neural network methods for analyzing linguistic data.
Basic neural network architectures and optimization through
backpropagation and stochastic gradient descent. Word vectors and
recurrent neural networks, and their uses and limitations in modeling
the structure of natural language. *//Prerequisites://* MATH 10C or MATH
20C or MATH 31BH; ability to program.

LIGN 168. Computational Speech Processing (4)

An upper-division course focused on understanding some of the many
approaches, algorithms, and processes used in the computational
processing of speech, both by linguists and in industrial and
engineering applications. We will consider topics like pitch and formant
extraction, automatic speech recognition, and text-to-speech and voice
transmission codecs. We’ll discuss the limitations of current
approaches, and consider ongoing areas of growth and development in the
field. *//Prerequisites://* LIGN 110.

LIGN 170. Psycholinguistics (4)

The study of how humans learn, represent, comprehend, and produce
language. Topics include visual and auditory recognition of words,
sentence comprehension, reading, sentence production, language
acquisition, neural representation of language, bilingualism, and
language disorders. */Prerequisites:/* LIGN 101, or upper-division
standing, or consent of instructor.

LIGN 171. Child Language Acquisition (4)

A central cognitive, developmental mystery is how children learn their
first language. Overview of research in the learning of sound systems,
word forms and word meanings, and word combinations. Exploration of the
relation between cognitive and language development. */Prerequisites:/*
LIGN 101, or upper-division standing, or consent of instructor.

LIGN 172. Psycholinguistics Laboratory Projects (4)

A project-oriented laboratory course (research) in which students learn
and use experimental design, and are guided to develop their own ideas
and tools, along with using state-of-the-art instruments to investigate
a linguistic problem of current interest, under the direction of the
instructor. A range of current topics in psycholinguistics is available
including sentence and discourse processing, word comprehension and
production, and cross-linguistic research. */Prerequisites:/* LIGN 101
and (LIGN 170 or LIGN 171 or LIGN 180 or LIGN 181).

LIGN 174. Gender and Language in Society (4)

(Same as SOCI 116.) This course examines how language contributes to the
social construction of gender identities, and how gender impacts
language use and ideologies. Topics include the ways language and gender
interact across the life span, within ethnolinguistic minority
communities in the United States, across sexual orientations and
cultures. *Recommended preparation:* LIGN 101, or upper-division
standing, or consent of instructor.

LIGN 175. Sociolinguistics (4)

The study of language in its social context, with emphasis on the
different types of linguistic variation and the principles underlying
them. Dialects, registers, gender-based linguistic differences,
multilingualism, pidginization and creolization, factors influencing
linguistic choice, formal models of variation; emphasis is given both to
socially determined differences within the United States and US ethnic
groups and to cross-cultural differences in language use and variation.
*/Prerequisites:/* LIGN 101 or consent of instructor. Satisfies DEI
requirement.

LIGN 176. Language of Politics and Advertising (4)

How can we explain the difference between what is literally said versus
what is actually conveyed in the language of law, politics, and
advertising? How people’s ordinary command of language and their
reasoning skills are used to manipulate them. */Prerequisites:/* none.

LIGN 177. Multilingualism (4)

Official and minority languages, pidgins and Creoles, language planning,
bilingual education and literacy, code switching, and language
attrition. */Prerequisites:/* LIGN 101, or upper-division standing, or
consent of instructor.

LIGN 178. Spanish Sociolinguistics (4)

This course examines how social variables, such as age, education,
gender, and social status may be linguistically expressed in different
varieties of Spanish. Attitudes toward different linguistic variants and
how these impact language policy will be studied. Special emphasis will
be given to the varieties of Spanish spoken in the United States.*//
Prerequisites://* LIGN 101 or consent of instructor. Satisfies DEI
requirement.

LIGN 179. Second Language Acquisition Research (4)

This course will investigate topics in second language acquisition
including the critical period, the processing and neural representation
of language in bilinguals, theories of second language acquisition and
creolization, exceptional language learners, and parallels with first
language acquisition. */Prerequisites:/* LIGN 101, or upper-division
standing, or consent of instructor.

LIGN 180. Language Representation in the Brain (4)

The mind/body problem, modularity, basic neuroanatomy, cerebral
lateralization, re-evaluation of classical language areas, aphasia,
dyslexia, the KE family and FOXP2 gene, mirror neurons, sign language,
brain development, cortical plasticity, and localization studies of
language processing (electrical stimulation, MEG, fMRI, and PET).
Students may not receive credit for both LIGN 172 and LIGN 180. */
Prerequisites:/* LIGN 101, or upper-division standing, or consent of
instructor.

LIGN 181. Language Processing in the Brain (4)

Modularity and models of language processing, basic neurophysiology,
EEG/MEG, linguistic event-related brain potentials (ERPs),
crosslinguistic functional significance of ERP components and their MEG
correlates: N400, N400-700, lexical processing negativity, slow anterior
negative potentials, (early) left anterior negativity, and late
positivity. */Prerequisites:/* LIGN 101, or upper-division standing, or
consent of instructor.

LIGN 187. Seminar on Special Topics (4)

Special topics in linguistics are discussed. */Prerequisites:/* As
topics will vary with each offering, and will be advanced in level, the
department must approve if students have already obtained the relevant
background.

LIGN 192. Senior Seminar in Linguistics (1)

The Senior Seminar Program is designed to allow senior undergraduates to
meet with faculty members in a small group setting to explore an
intellectual topic in linguistics (at the upper-division level). Senior
Seminars may be offered in all campus departments. Topics will vary from
quarter to quarter. Senior Seminars may be taken for credit up to four
times, with a change in topic, and permission of the department.
Enrollment is limited to twenty students, with preference given to
seniors. */Prerequisites:/* department stamp and/or consent of instructor.

LIGN 195. Apprentice Teaching (0–4)

Students lead a class section of a lower-division linguistics course.
They also attend a weekly meeting on teaching methods. (This course does
not count toward minor or major.) May be repeated for credit, up to a
maximum of four units. (P/NP grades only.) */Prerequisites:/* consent of
instructor, advanced standing.

LIGN 197. Linguistics Internship (2 or 4)

The student will undertake a program of practical research in a
supervised work environment. Topics to be researched may vary, but in
each case the course will provide skills for carrying out these studies.
*/Prerequisites:/* consent of instructor.

LIGN 199. Independent Study in Linguistics (2 or 4)

The student undertakes a program of research or advanced reading in
linguistics under the supervision of a faculty member of the Department
of Linguistics. (P/NP grades only.) */Prerequisites:/* consent of
instructor. May be repeated for credit.

LIGN 199H. Honors Independent Study in Linguistics (4)

The student undertakes a program of research and advanced reading in
linguistics under the supervision of a faculty member in the Department
of Linguistics. (P/NP grades only.) */Prerequisites:/* admission to
Honors Program.


      Graduate

LIGN 200. Research Forum (2)

A forum for discussion of current issues. (S/U grades only.) May be
repeated for credit.

LIGN 210. Phonetics (4)

This is an introduction to articulatory, acoustic, and auditory
phonetics. Major phonetic theories in these areas, and the relationship
between phonetics and phonology are discussed. The course also covers
experimental design and methodology and provides hands-on experience
with laboratory equipment. */Prerequisites:/* none.

LIGN 211. Phonology (4)

Introduction to the description and analysis of the sound patterns of
language and to the construction of theoretical models, including
cognitive rules, representations, and constraints.

LIGN 214. Topics in Phonetics (4)

This course examines recent developments in controversial areas of
phonetics. Topics will vary and will address issues in speech production
(articulation, acoustics), speech perception, phonetic theory, and the
relationship between phonetics and phonology. May be repeated for credit
up to two times. */Prerequisites:/* LIGN 210 and LIGN 211.

LIGN 215. Topics in Phonology (4)

Discussion of a topic of current phonological interest, with a focus on
descriptive, analytical, and theoretical issues in phonology and
phonological theory.

LIGN 220. Morphology (4)

Theories of word structure are examined and confronted with data from a
variety of languages: derivational and inflectional morphology, the
morphology/phonology, and morphology/syntax interfaces.

LIGN 221. Syntax (4)

An introduction to syntactic phenomena, argumentation, analyses, and
theoretical models. Phenomena to be discussed include phrase structure,
argument structure, binding, control, and A- and A’-dependencies.

LIGN 225. Topics in Syntax (4)

Descriptive and theoretical problems in syntactic analysis. Theoretical
consequences of alternative analyses. May be repeated for credit as
topics vary.

LIGN 228. Probabilistic Models of Cognition (4)

(Same as PSYC 232.) Computational theories of human cognition,
particularly Bayesian approaches. Techniques may include directed
graphical models; hierarchical models; nonparametric models;
probabilistic programming languages. Topics may include decision making;
perception; causal reasoning; categorization; language. Recommended
preparation: previous experience with statistics, machine learning, and/
or functional programming helpful.

LIGN 230. Semantics (4)

Theories of semantic structure. The relation of meaning to grammar, and
how it is to be accommodated in an overall model of linguistic
organization. The application of formal semantics to the description of
natural language.

LIGN 232. Semantic Development (4)

(Same as PSYC 235.) This course will explore the development of concepts
and linguistic meaning via classic case studies in semantics, including
word learning, quantifier acquisition, and the foundations of
mathematics. The course will draw on evidence from linguistics, the
philosophy of language, and developmental psychology.

LIGN 235. Topics in Semantics (2–4)

Advanced material in special areas of the study of meaning and its
relation to formal aspects of human language. May be repeated for credit
up to three times as topics vary.

LIGN 238. Topics in Cognitive Linguistics (0–4)

(Same as COGS 238.) Basic concepts, empirical findings, and recent
developments in cognitive and functional linguistics. Language viewed
dynamically in relation to conceptualization, discourse, meaning
construction, and cognitive processing. May be repeated for credit as
topics vary.

LIGN 240. Field Methods (4)

Techniques of discovering the structure of a language through
elicitation of data from native speaker consultants. Phonemic,
morphemic, and syntactic analysis. */Prerequisites:/* LIGN 110 or
equivalent.

LIGN 241. Fieldwork (4)

Fieldwork continuing the research of the previous quarter; student-
directed elicitations on topics of interest. */Prerequisites:/* LIGN 240.

LIGN 245. Computational Corpus Linguistics (4)

Introduction to computational corpus tools for performing empirically
grounded linguistic investigations. Annotated and unannotated corpora;
annotation schemes. Searching using regular expressions. UNIX tools. The
PERL programming language. Publicly available language processing systems.

LIGN 247. Topics in Pragmatics (2–4)

Advanced material covering particular topics relating to the theoretical
analysis of the pragmatics of natural languages. May be repeated for
credit up to three times as topics vary. */Prerequisites:/* consent of
instructor.

LIGN 248. Topics in Morphology (4)

Descriptive and theoretical problems in morphology. Theoretical and
empirical consequences of alternative analyses. May be repeated for
credit up to three times as topics vary. */Prerequisites:/* LIGN 220.

LIGN 251. Probabilistic Methods in Linguistics (4)

Probabilistic approaches to language knowledge, acquisition, and use.
Quantitative analysis of linguistic data. Quantitative models in
linguistic theory. Covers basic probability theory and tools of
statistical analysis for language, including linear regression, ANOVA,
generalized linear models (e.g., logistic regression), data
visualization. Familiarity with probability theory highly encouraged.

LIGN 252. Advanced Probabilistic Models of Language (4)

Probabilistic techniques for data analysis and modeling of linguistics
cognition. Hierarchical (mixed-effects) regression, graphical models,
Bayesian methods, latent-variable models, nonparametric models,
probabilistic grammars. Course covers both mathematical foundations and
working with datasets using state-of-the-art computational tools.
Recommended prerequisite: LIGN 251 or equivalent course with emphasis on
probabilistic methods in linguistics. */Prerequisites:/* graduate
standing or consent of instructor.

LIGN 255. Topics in Language Evolution (4)

The study of human language evolution from a variety of perspectives:
anatomical, comparative, computational, cultural, experimental,
generational, genetic, gestural, historical, neural, phonetic/
phonological, pragmatic, semantic, semiotic, syntactic, etc. May be
taken for credit three times when topics vary.

LIGN 256. Statistical Natural Language Processing (4)

(Same as CSE 256.) Introduction to modern statistical approaches to
natural language processing: part-of-speech tagging, word-sense
disambiguation and parsing, using Markov models, hidden Markov models,
and probabilistic context-free grammars. Recommended /Prerequisites:/
one of LIGN 165, LIGN 245, CSE 151, CSE 250A, CSE 254. */Prerequisites:/
* graduate standing or consent of instructor.

LIGN 266. Computational Pragmatics (4)

This course will provide an introduction to computational models of
pragmatics and their empirical evaluation. The course will mainly focus
on probabilistic models, including the Rational Speech Acts model and
its various extensions. Students will learn how to build
probabilistically coherent models of agent behavior, and how to evaluate
the linguistic accuracy of these models.

LIGN 270. Topics in Psycholinguistics (4)

We will discuss issues in theoretical linguistics from a perspective of
language representation and processing, and current development in
psycholinguistics and neighboring disciplines from a methodological
point of view. May be taken for credit up to three times when topics vary.

LIGN 271. Advanced Topics in Psycholinguistics (4)

Advanced material covering topics in the experimental study of language
comprehension, relating to different theoretical analyses of syntax,
semantics, and pragmatics; models of linguistic architecture;
methodological and statistical issues; cross-linguistic
psycholinguistics; and interfaces with broader cognition. May be taken
for credit up to two times.*//Prerequisites://* LIGN 270.

LIGN 272. Topics in Neurolinguistics (4)

Issues of language representation and neural instantiation that arise in
studies of neural imaging, language disorders, multilingualism and
second language acquisition, animal communication, and the origins and
evolution of language. May be repeated for credit when topics vary.

LIGN 274. Computational Psycholinguistics (4)

Investigation of problems in psycholinguistics—the study of how humans
learn, represent, comprehend, and produce language—from a computational
perspective. Research article readings covering word-level, sentence-
level, and discourse-level processing. Prior background in
psycholinguistics and/or computational linguistics highly recommended.

LIGN 279. Topics in Language Acquisition (4)

Language acquisition is central to theories about human development,
cognition, brain organization, and language origins and change. Topics
include the role of input and critical periods on language outcome and
processing, neural organization, and sign language creation. */
Prerequisites:/* none.

LIGN 280. Sign Language Research (4)

An overview of sign language research in terms of how it informs
language theory. Topics include the structure of ASL, acquisition,
psycholinguistic and neurolinguistic processing of sign language in
comparison to spoken language, critical period effects, and language
evolution. */Prerequisites:/* graduate standing or consent of instructor.

LIGN 281. Language Acquisition Theory and Research (4)

Children’s first language acquisition and how it illuminates linguistic,
cognitive, and neurolinguistic theory. Topics include past and current
research with a focus on design, methodology, and data analysis in child
language.

LIGN 282. Biology and Environment in Language Acquisition (4)

How the environment and the biology of language, including sensory motor
modality and neural development, affect language development. Topics
include the paradigms used to study the critical period for language.

LIGN 283. Language and Conceptual Development (4)

(Same as PSYC 260.) This class will investigate case studies in
conceptual development that interact with language acquisition,
including domains such as time, space, number, and theory of mind. The
approach of the class will be to explore the chosen case study from the
perspective of philosophy, linguistics, psychology, anthropology, and
comparative psychology, with a particular focus on how conceptual
development is affected by the acquisition of language.

LIGN 284. Topics in Sign Language Research (4)

The structure and nature of natural sign languages informs multiple
questions in linguistics and cognitive and neural science. Topics
include linguistic structure, psycholinguistic processing, acquisition,
brain processing, and language creation. May be taken for credit up to
three times as topics vary.

LIGN 287. Seminar on Special Topics (4)

Special topics in linguistics are discussed. */Prerequisites:/* As
topics will vary with each offering, the department must approve if
students have already obtained the relevant background.

LIGN 293. Research Practicum (0–4)

Gathering and interpreting data, formulating research questions and
hypotheses, making the predictions of hypotheses explicit, finding
relevant evidence, and organizing research results into suitable form
for presentation in abstracts, talks, and research papers. (S/U grades
only.) May be repeated for credit.

LIGN 296. Directed Research (1–8)

Individual research. May be repeated for credit.

LIGN 299. Doctoral Research (1–12)

Directed research on dissertation topic for students who have been
admitted to candidacy for the PhD degree. May be repeated for credit. */
Prerequisites:/* advancement to candidacy.

LIGN 500. Linguistics Graduate Instructional Assistant Training (1–4)

This course, a weekly interactive lecture, is designed to give
linguistics instructional assistants (IAs) formal training in
pedagogical theory, learning evaluation, classroom management, and the
role and expectations of a Linguistics IA. The course will also include
microteaching, panel discussions with faculty, direct discussion of
supporting students in difficult situations, and offers new IAs a forum
to discuss and work through day-to-day difficulties in teaching.

LIGN 502. Apprentice Teaching of Linguistics (1–4)

The course, designed for graduate students serving as teaching
assistants in the department’s linguistics courses, includes discussion
of teaching theories, techniques, and materials, conduct of discussion
sessions, and participation in examinations, under the supervision of
the instructor in charge of the course. The student must be serving as a
teaching assistant in a LIGN course to receive credit.

LIGN 503. Apprentice Teaching of American Sign Language (1–4)

The course, designed for graduate students serving as teaching
assistants in American Sign Language, includes discussion of teaching
theories, techniques and materials, conduct of discussion sessions, and
participation in examinations, under the supervision of the instructor
in charge of the course. (S/U grades only.) May be repeated for credit.

LIGN 504. Apprentice Teaching of French (1–4)

The course, designed for graduate students serving as teaching
assistants in French, includes discussion of teaching theories,
techniques and materials, conduct of discussion sessions, and
participation in examinations, under the supervision of the instructor
in charge of the course. (S/U grades only.) May be repeated for credit.

LIGN 505. Apprentice Teaching of German (1–4)

The course, designed for graduate students serving as teaching
assistants in German, includes discussion of teaching theories,
techniques and materials, conduct of discussion sessions, and
participation in examinations, under the supervision of the instructor
in charge of the course. (S/U grades only.) May be repeated for credit.

LIGN 506. Apprentice Teaching of Italian (1–4)

The course, designed for graduate students serving as teaching
assistants in Italian, includes discussion of teaching theories,
techniques and materials, conduct of discussion sessions, and
participation in examinations, under the supervision of the instructor
in charge of the course. (S/U grades only.) May be repeated for credit.

LIGN 507. Apprentice Teaching of Spanish (1–4)

The course, designed for graduate students serving as teaching
assistants in Spanish, includes discussion of teaching theories,
techniques and materials, conduct of discussion sessions, and
participation in examinations, under the supervision of the instructor
in charge of the course. (S/U grades only.) May be repeated for credit.

LIGN 508. Apprentice Teaching of Language/Directed Study (1–4)

The course, designed for graduate students serving as teaching
assistants in language directed study, includes discussion of teaching
theories, techniques and materials, directing study of various
uncommonly taught languages, sessions, and participation in
examinations, under the supervision of the instructor in charge of the
course. (S/U grades only.) May be repeated for credit.

LIGN 509. Apprentice Teaching, Head Teaching Assistant (1–4)

This course, designed for a graduate student serving as Head Teaching
Assistant in the Linguistics Language Program, includes discussion of
teaching methods and materials, and classroom observation, directing
study of various uncommonly taught languages, sessions, and
participation in examinations, under the supervision of the instructor
in charge of the course.

LIGN 510. Apprentice Teaching of Arabic (1–4)

The course, designed for graduate students serving as teaching
assistants in Arabic, includes discussion of teaching theories,
techniques and materials, conduct of discussion sessions, and
participation in examinations, under the supervision of the instructor
in charge of the course. (S/U grades only.) May be repeated for credit.

LIGN 511. Apprentice Teaching of Portuguese (1–4)

The course, designed for graduate students serving as teaching
assistants in Portuguese, includes discussion of teaching theories,
techniques and materials, conduct of discussion sessions, and
participation in examinations, under the supervision of the instructor
in charge of the course. (S/U grades only.) May be repeated for credit.

LIGN 512. Apprentice Teaching of Heritage Korean (1–4)

The course, designed for graduate students serving as teaching
assistants in Heritage Korean, includes discussion of teaching theories,
techniques and materials, conduct of discussion sessions, and
participation in examinations, under the supervision of the instructor
in charge of the course. (S/U only.) May be repeated for credit.

LIGN 513. Apprentice Teaching of Heritage Vietnamese (1–4)

The course, designed for graduate students serving as teaching
assistants in Heritage Vietnamese, includes discussion of teaching
theories, techniques and materials, conduct of discussion sessions, and
participation in examinations, under the supervision of the instructor
in charge of the course. (S/U only.) May be repeated for credit.

LIGN 514. Apprentice Teaching of Heritage Persian (1–4)

The course, designed for graduate students serving as teaching
assistants in Heritage Persian, includes discussion of teaching
theories, techniques and materials, conduct of discussion sessions, and
participation in examinations, under the supervision of the instructor
in charge of the course. (S/U grades only.) May be repeated for credit.

LIGN 515. Apprentice Teaching of Heritage Filipino (1–4)

The course, designed for graduate students serving as teaching
assistants in Heritage Filipino, includes discussion of teaching
theories, techniques and materials, conduct of discussion sessions, and
participation in examinations, under the supervision of the instructor
in charge of the course. (S/U grades only.) May be repeated for credit.


    Courses


    Language

Linguistics Language Program Office, 3101 Applied Physics and
Mathematics Building, Muir College

Students are placed in foreign language courses based on prior
preparation and, for French, German, Italian, and Spanish, on the
results of a placement test. Information on taking the placement exam is
available at https://llp.ucsd.edu/language-program/placement.html
<https://llp.ucsd.edu/language-program/placement.html> or at the
Linguistics Language Program Office (3101 Applied Physics and
Mathematics Building). For placement in Arabic, American Sign Language,
or Portuguese contact the Linguistics Language Program Office (3101
Applied Physics and Mathematics Building).

Conversation sections (Linguistics 1A-1B-1C-1D) consist of small
tutorial meetings, plus reading and assigned laboratory work. Analysis
sections (Linguistics 1AX-1BX-1CX-1DX) consist of presentation and
practice of grammatical structures, discussion sections, assigned
laboratory work, and outside reading. Each course in the 1A-1B-1C-1D
series must be taken concurrently with the corresponding course in the
1AX-1BX-1CX-1DX series.

Heritage Language courses are offered in Arabic, Armenian, Cantonese,
Filipino, Hindi, Persian, and Vietnamese. These courses are designed for
students with a background in the language who want to improve their
oral and written expression.

Linguistics 11 courses are self-instructional: intended for reading the
language for scholarly purposes. They are particularly aimed at graduate
students preparing to fulfill French or German reading requirements.

Linguistics 19 courses, offered in more than sixty languages, are
designed for self-instructional study at an introductory level. Students
may enroll for two or four units of credit. For some languages,
depending on the availability of suitable materials, the course may be
repeated for credit.


      AMERICAN SIGN LANGUAGE

Linguistics/American Sign Language (LISL) 1A. American Sign Language
Conversation (2.5)

Small tutorial meetings with a signer of American Sign Language (ASL).
Conversational practice organized around common everyday communicative
situations. Must be taken with LISL 1AX. */Prerequisites:/* no prior
study of ASL.

Linguistics/American Sign Language (LISL) 1AX. Analysis of American Sign
Language (2.5)

Study of American Sign Language (ASL) and analysis of its syntactic,
morphological, and phonological features. Readings and discussions of
cultural information. The course is taught entirely in ASL. Must be
taken with LISL 1A. */Prerequisites:/* no prior study of ASL.

Linguistics/American Sign Language (LISL) 1B. American Sign Language
Conversation (2.5)

Small tutorial meetings with a signer of American Sign Language (ASL).
Conversational practice organized around common everyday communicative
situations. Must be taken with LISL 1BX. */Prerequisites:/* LISL 1A with
a grade of C– or better, or equivalent and LISL 1AX with a grade of D or
better, or equivalent.

Linguistics/American Sign Language (LISL) 1BX. Analysis of American Sign
Language (2.5)

Study of American Sign Language (ASL) and analysis of its syntactic,
morphological, and phonological features. Readings and discussions of
cultural information. The course is taught entirely in ASL. Must be
taken with LISL 1B. */Prerequisites:/* LISL 1A with a grade of C– or
better, or equivalent and LISL 1AX with a grade of D or better, or
equivalent.

Linguistics/American Sign Language (LISL) 1C. American Sign Language
Conversation (2.5)

Small tutorial meetings with a signer of American Sign Language (ASL).
Conversational practice organized around common everyday communicative
situations. Must be taken with LISL 1CX. */Prerequisites:/* LISL 1B with
a grade of C– or better, or equivalent and LISL 1BX with a grade of D or
better, or equivalent.

Linguistics/American Sign Language (LISL) 1CX. Analysis of American Sign
Language (2.5)

Study of American Sign Language (ASL) and analysis of its syntactic,
morphological, and phonological features. Readings and discussions of
cultural information. The course is taught entirely in ASL. Must be
taken with LISL 1C. */Prerequisites:/* LISL 1B with a grade of C– or
better, or equivalent and LISL 1BX with a grade of D or better, or
equivalent.

Linguistics/American Sign Language (LISL) 1D. American Sign Language
Conversation (2.5)

Small conversation sections taught entirely in American Sign Language.
Emphasis on developing signing fluency and greater cultural awareness.
Practice of the principal language functions needed for successful
communication. Must be taken in conjunction with LISL 1DX. Successful
completion of LISL 1D and LISL 1DX satisfies the requirement for
language proficiency in Eleanor Roosevelt and Revelle Colleges. */
Prerequisites:/* LISL 1C with a grade of C– or better, or equivalent and
LISL 1CX with a grade of D or better, or equivalent.

Linguistics/American Sign Language (LISL) 1DX. Analysis of American Sign
Language (2.5)

Practice of the grammatical functions indispensable for comprehensible
communication in the language. The course is taught entirely in American
Sign Language. Must be taken in conjunction with LISL 1D. Successful
completion of LISL 1D and LISL 1DX satisfies the requirement for
language proficiency in Eleanor Roosevelt and Revelle Colleges. */
Prerequisites:/* LISL 1C with a grade of C– or better, or equivalent and
LISL 1CX with a grade of D or better, or equivalent.

Linguistics/American Sign Language (LISL) 1E. Intermediate American Sign
Language Conversation (4)

Course aims to improve language skills through discussion of topics
relevant to the Deaf community. Central topics will include education
and American Sign Language (ASL) literature. Conducted entirely in
American Sign Language. */Prerequisites:/* LISL 1D and LISL 1DX with a
grade of C– or better, or equivalent.

Linguistics/American Sign Language (LISL) 5A, 5B, 5C. Fundamentals of
American Sign Language (5)

This course concentrates on those language skills essential for
communication: signing, comprehension, grammar analysis, and deaf
culture. UC San Diego students: LISL 5A is equivalent to LISL 1A/1AX,
LISL 5B to LISL 1B/BX, and LISL 5C to LISL 1C/1CX. Enrollment is
limited. */Prerequisites:/* none for 5A; for 5B two or more years of ASL
in high school or the first semester of college-level ASL. (Offered in
Summer Session only.)


      ARABIC

See also Linguistics “Heritage Language Program <#HLP>.”

Linguistics/Arabic (LIAB) 1A. Arabic Conversation (2.5)

Small conversation sections taught entirely in the target language.
Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building,
reading, and culture. Must be taken in conjunction with LIAB 1AX. */
Prerequisites:/* no prior study of Arabic.

Linguistics/Arabic (LIAB) 1AX. Analysis of Arabic (2.5)

Presentation and practice of the basic grammatical structures needed for
oral and written communication and for reading. This course is taught
entirely in Arabic. Must be taken in conjunction with LIAB 1A. */
Prerequisites:/* no prior study of Arabic.

Linguistics/Arabic (LIAB) 1B. Arabic Conversation (2.5)

Small conversation sections taught entirely in the target language.
Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building,
reading, and culture. Must be taken in conjunction with LIAB 1BX. */
Prerequisites:/* LIAB 1A with a grade of C– or better, or equivalent and
LIAB 1AX with a grade of D or better, or equivalent.

Linguistics/Arabic (LIAB) 1BX. Analysis of Arabic (2.5)

Presentation and practice of the basic grammatical structures needed for
oral and written communication and for reading. This course is taught
entirely in Arabic. Must be taken in conjunction with LIAB 1B. */
Prerequisites:/* LIAB 1A with a grade of C– or better, or equivalent and
LIAB 1AX with a grade of D or better, or equivalent.

Linguistics/Arabic (LIAB) 1C. Arabic Conversation (2.5)

Small conversation sections taught entirely in the target language.
Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building,
reading, and culture. Must be taken in conjunction with LIAB 1CX. */
Prerequisites:/* LIAB 1B with a grade of C– or better, or equivalent and
LIAB 1BX with a grade of D or better, or equivalent.

Linguistics/Arabic (LIAB) 1CX. Analysis of Arabic (2.5)

Presentation and practice of the basic grammatical structures needed for
oral and written communication and for reading. This course is taught
entirely in Arabic. Must be taken in conjunction with LIAB 1C. */
Prerequisites:/* LIAB 1B with a grade of C– or better, or equivalent and
LIAB 1BX with a grade of D or better, or equivalent.

Linguistics/Arabic (LIAB) 1D. Arabic Conversation (2.5)

Small conversation sections taught entirely in the target language.
Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building,
reading, and culture. Must be taken in conjunction with LIAB 1DX.
Successful completion of LIAB 1D and 1DX satisfies the requirement for
language proficiency in Revelle and Eleanor Roosevelt Colleges. */
Prerequisites:/* LIAB 1C with a grade of C– or better, or equivalent and
LIAB 1CX with a grade of D or better, or equivalent.

Linguistics/Arabic (LIAB) 1DX. Analysis of Arabic (2.5)

Presentation and practice of the basic grammatical structures needed for
oral and written communication and for reading. This course is taught
entirely in Arabic. Must be taken in conjunction with LIAB 1D.
Successful completion of LIAB 1D and 1DX satisfies the requirement for
language proficiency in Revelle and Eleanor Roosevelt Colleges. */
Prerequisites:/* LIAB 1C with a grade of C– or better, or equivalent and
LIAB 1CX with a grade of D or better, or equivalent.

Linguistics/Arabic (LIAB) 1E. Arabic Conversation (2.5)

Small conversation sections taught entirely in the target language.
Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building,
reading, and culture. Must be taken in conjunction with LIAB 1EX. */
Prerequisites:/* LIAB 1D with a grade of C– or better, or equivalent,
and LIAB 1DX with a grade of D or better, or equivalent.

Linguistics/Arabic (LIAB) 1EX. Arabic Conversation (2.5)

Presentation and practice of the basic grammatical structures needed for
oral and written communication and for reading. The course is taught
entirely in Arabic. Must be taken in conjunction with LIAB 1E. */
Prerequisites:/* LIAB 1D with a grade of C– or better, or equivalent,
and LIAB 1DX with a grade of D or better, or equivalent.

Linguistics/Arabic (LIAB) 1F. Intermediate Arabic Conversation and
Analysis (4)

A course to increase the proficiency level of students who have
completed LIAB 1E/1EX or who are at an equivalent level. Attention to
listening comprehension, conversation, vocabulary building, reading,
grammar analysis, and culture. */Prerequisites:/* LIAB 1E or equivalent
or LIAB 1EX.

Linguistics/Arabic (LIAB) 1G. Advanced Arabic (4)

A course to increase the proficiency level of students who have
completed LIAB 1F or who are at an equivalent level. Attention to
listening comprehension, conversation, vocabulary building, reading,
grammar analysis, and culture. *//Prerequisites://* LIAB 1F or equivalent.


      CHINESE

See “Chinese Studies <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/courses/CHIN.html>.”

See also Linguistics “Directed Study <#DS>.”

See also “Linguistics/Heritage Cantonese <#lihl118>.”


      ESPERANTO

See also Linguistics “Directed Study <#DS>.”


      FRENCH

Linguistics/French (LIFR) 1A. French Conversation (2.5)

Small conversation sections taught entirely in the target language.
Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building,
reading, and culture. Must be taken in conjunction with LIFR 1AX. */
Prerequisites:/* no prior study of French.

Linguistics/French (LIFR) 1AX. Analysis of French (2.5)

Presentation and practice of the basic grammatical structures needed for
oral and written communication and for reading. The course is taught
entirely in French. Must be taken in conjunction with LIFR 1A. */
Prerequisites:/* no prior study of French.

Linguistics/French (LIFR) 1B. French Conversation (2.5)

Small conversation sections taught entirely in the target language.
Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building,
reading, and culture. Must be taken in conjunction with LIFR 1BX. */
Prerequisites:/* LIFR 1A with a grade of C– or better, or equivalent and
LIFR 1AX with a grade of D or better, or equivalent.

Linguistics/French (LIFR) 1BX. Analysis of French (2.5)

Presentation and practice of the basic grammatical structures needed for
oral and written communication and for reading. The course is taught
entirely in French. Must be taken in conjunction with LIFR 1B. */
Prerequisites:/* LIFR 1A with a grade of C– or better, or equivalent and
LIFR 1AX with a grade of D or better, or equivalent.

Linguistics/French (LIFR) 1C. French Conversation (2.5)

Small conversation sections taught entirely in the target language.
Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building,
reading, and culture. Must be taken in conjunction with LIFR 1CX. */
Prerequisites:/* LIFR 1B with a grade of C– or better, or equivalent and
LIFR 1BX with a grade of D or better, or equivalent.

Linguistics/French (LIFR) 1CX. Analysis of French (2.5)

Presentation and practice of the basic grammatical structures needed for
oral and written communication and for reading. The course is taught
entirely in French. Must be taken in conjunction with LIFR 1C. */
Prerequisites:/* LIFR 1B with a grade of C– or better, or equivalent and
LIFR 1BX with a grade of D or better, or equivalent.

Linguistics/French (LIFR) 1D. French Conversation (2.5)

Small conversation sections taught entirely in French. Emphasis on
speaking, reading, writing, and culture. Practice of the language
functions needed for successful communication. Must be taken in
conjunction with LIFR 1DX. Successful completion of LIFR 1D and LIFR 1DX
satisfies the requirement for language proficiency in Eleanor Roosevelt
and Revelle Colleges. */Prerequisites:/* LIFR 1C with a grade of C– or
better, or equivalent and LIFR 1CX with a grade of D or better, or
equivalent.

Linguistics/French (LIFR) 1DX. Analysis of French (2.5)

Practice of the grammatical functions indispensable for comprehensible
communication in the language. The course is taught entirely in French.
Must be taken in conjunction with LIFR 1D. Successful completion of LIFR
1D and LIFR 1DX satisfies the requirement for language proficiency in
Eleanor Roosevelt and Revelle Colleges. */Prerequisites:/* LIFR 1C with
a grade of C– or better, or equivalent and LIFR 1CX with a grade of D or
better, or equivalent.

Linguistics/French (LIFR) 5B, 5C, 5D. Fundamentals of French (5)

This course concentrates on those language skills essential for
communication: listening comprehension, conversation, reading, writing,
and grammar analysis. UC San Diego students: LIFR 5A is equivalent to
LIFR 1A/1AX, LIFR 5B to LIFR 1B/1BX, LIFR 5C to LIFR 1C/1CX, and LIFR 5D
to LIFR 1D/1DX. Enrollment is limited. */Prerequisites:/* none for 5A;
for 5B, two or more years of French in high school or the first semester
of college-level French. (Offered in Summer Session only.)

Linguistics/French (LIFR) 11. Elementary French Reading (2–4)

A self-instructional program designed to prepare graduate students to
meet reading requirements in French. After a one-week introduction to
French orthography/ sound correspondence, students work with a self-
instructional textbook. Midterm and final examinations. (F,W,S)

See also “Department of Literature <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/courses/
LIT.html>.”


      GERMAN

Linguistics/German (LIGM) 1A. German Conversation (2.5)

Small conversation sections taught entirely in the target language.
Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building,
reading, and culture. Must be taken in conjunction with LIGM 1AX. */
Prerequisites:/* no prior study of German.

Linguistics/German (LIGM) 1AX. Analysis of German (2.5)

Presentation and practice of the basic grammatical structures needed for
oral and written communication and for reading. The course is taught
entirely in German. Must be taken with LIGM 1A. */Prerequisites:/* no
prior study of German.

Linguistics/German (LIGM) 1B. German Conversation (2.5)

Small conversation sections taught entirely in the target language.
Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building,
reading, and culture. Must be taken in conjunction with LIGM 1BX. */
Prerequisites:/* LIGM 1A with a grade of C– or better, or equivalent and
LIGM 1AX with a grade of D or better, or equivalent.

Linguistics/German (LIGM) 1BX. Analysis of German (2.5)

Presentation and practice of the basic grammatical structures needed for
oral and written communication and for reading. The course is taught
entirely in German. Must be taken with LIGM 1B. */Prerequisites:/* LIGM
1A with a grade of C– or better, or equivalent and LIGM 1AX with a grade
of D or better, or equivalent.

Linguistics/German (LIGM) 1C. German Conversation (2.5)

Small conversation sections taught entirely in the target language.
Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building,
reading, and culture. Must be taken in conjunction with LIGM 1CX. */
Prerequisites:/* LIGM 1B with a grade of C– or better, or equivalent and
LIGM 1BX with a grade of D or better, or equivalent.

Linguistics/German (LIGM) 1CX. Analysis of German (2.5)

Presentation and practice of the basic grammatical structures needed for
oral and written communication and for reading. The course is taught
entirely in German. Must be taken with LIGM 1C. */Prerequisites:/* LIGM
1B with a grade of C– or better, or equivalent and LIGM 1BX with a grade
of D or better, or equivalent.

Linguistics/German (LIGM) 1D. German Conversation (2.5)

Small conversation sections taught entirely in German. Emphasis on
speaking, reading, writing, and culture. Practice of the language
functions needed for successful communication. Must be taken in
conjunction with LIGM 1DX. Successful completion of LIGM 1D and LIGM 1DX
satisfies the requirement for language proficiency in Eleanor Roosevelt
and Revelle Colleges. */Prerequisites:/* LIGM 1C with a grade of C– or
better, or equivalent and LIGM 1CX with a grade of D or better, or
equivalent.

Linguistics/German (LIGM) 1DX. Analysis of German (2.5)

Practice of the grammatical functions indispensable for comprehensible
communication in the language. The course is taught entirely in German.
Must be taken in conjunction with LIGM 1D. Successful completion of LIGM
1D and LIGM 1DX satisfies the requirement for language proficiency in
Eleanor Roosevelt and Revelle Colleges. */Prerequisites:/* LIGM 1C with
a grade of C– or better, or equivalent and LIGM 1CX with a grade of D or
better, or equivalent.

Linguistics/German (LIGM) 11. Elementary German Reading (2–4)

A self-instructional program designed to prepare graduate students to
meet reading requirements in German. After a one-week introduction to
German orthography/sound correspondences, students work with a self-
instructional textbook. Midterm and final examinations. (F,W,S)

Linguistics/German (LIGM) 5A, 5B, 5C, 5D. Fundamentals of German (5)

This course concentrates on those language skills essential for
communication: listening comprehension, reading, writing, and grammar
analysis. UC San Diego students: LIGM 5A is equivalent to LIGM 1A/1AX,
LIGM 5B to LIGM 1B/1BX, and LIGM 5C to LIGM 1C/1CX. Enrollment is
limited. */Prerequisites:/* none for 5A; for 5B, two or more years of
German in high school or the first semester of college-level German.
(Offered in Summer Session only.)

See also “Department of Literature <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/courses/
LIT.html>.”


      GREEK

See “Department of Literature <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/courses/LIT.html>.”

See also Linguistics “Directed Study <#DS>.”


      HEBREW

See “Jewish Studies <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/courses/JWSP.html>.”

See also Linguistics “Directed Study <#DS>.”


      HERITAGE LANGUAGE PROGRAM

A “heritage” language is a language, typically spoken in the home, to
which individuals are exposed during childhood. These heritage language
speakers may learn to understand and speak this language to some degree
but are usually more comfortable speaking the dominant language (e.g.,
English). The idea behind the department’s innovative Heritage Language
Program is that heritage language students have a set of skills,
competencies, and needs that are distinct from those of both native
speakers learning to read and write the language for the first time, and
also nonnative learners who may study it as a foreign language during
adulthood. These students therefore require a different type of language
instruction, one that builds on and enhances the linguistic skills they
already possess and amplifies their cultural competence and literacy.
The Heritage Language Program allows students to work toward developing
higher levels of proficiency in order to pursue personal and
professional goals.

Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 16. Arabic Literacy for Arabic
Speakers (4)

For students who already comprehend informal spoken Arabic but who have
little or no reading and writing skills. Topics include the Arabic
alphabet, basic reading and writing, and differences between colloquial
and written Arabic. */Prerequisites:/* consent of instructor.

Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 17. Persian Literacy for Persian
Speakers (4)

For students who already comprehend informal spoken Persian but who have
little or no reading and writing skills. Topics include the Persian
alphabet, basic reading and writing, and differences between colloquial
and written Persian. */Prerequisites:/* consent of instructor.

Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 112F. Filipino for Filipino
Speakers (4)

For students who comprehend informal spoken Filipino but wish to improve
their communicative and sociocultural competence and their analytic
understanding. Language functions for oral communication, reading,
writing, and family life/festivals; dialect and language style
differences; structure and history of Filipino. May not receive credit
for both LIHL112 and LIHL112F. Courses may be taken in any order. */
Prerequisites:/* upper-division standing or consent of instructor;
appropriate proficiency for level.

Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 112W. Filipino for Filipino
Speakers (4)

For students who comprehend informal spoken Filipino but wish to improve
their communicative and sociocultural competence and their analytic
understanding. Language functions for oral communication, reading,
writing, and media/arts; dialect and language style differences;
structure and history of Filipino. May not receive credit for both
LIHL112 and LIHL112W. Courses may be taken in any order. */
Prerequisites:/* upper-division standing or consent of instructor;
appropriate proficiency for level.

Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 112P. Filipino for Filipino
Speakers (4)

For students who comprehend informal spoken Filipino but wish to improve
their communicative and sociocultural competence and their analytic
understanding. Language functions for oral communication, reading,
writing, and entertainment/culture; dialect and language style
differences; structure and history of Filipino. May not receive credit
for both LIHL112 and LIHL112P. Courses may be taken in any order. */
Prerequisites:/* upper-division standing or consent of instructor;
appropriate proficiency for level.

Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 132F. Advanced Filipino for
Filipino Speakers (4)

Instruction stresses language function required for advanced oral
communication, reading, writing, and cultural understanding in
professional contexts, with emphasis on domestic culture. High-level
vocabulary and texts; dialect differences and formal language styles
(registers). Advanced structural analysis and history of Filipino. LIHL
132F, LIHL 132W, and LIHL 132P may be taken in any order. */
Prerequisites:/* upper-division standing or consent of instructor;
appropriate proficiency for level.

Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 132W. Advanced Filipino for
Filipino Speakers (4)

Instruction stresses language function required for advanced oral
communication, reading, writing, and cultural understanding in
professional contexts, with emphasis on media/arts. High-level
vocabulary and texts; dialect differences and formal language styles
(registers). Advanced structural analysis and history of Filipino. LIHL
132F, LIHL 132W, and LIHL 132P may be taken in any order. */
Prerequisites:/* upper-division standing or consent of instructor;
appropriate proficiency for level.

Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 132P. Advanced Filipino for
Filipino Speakers (4)

Instruction stresses language function required for advanced oral
communication, reading, writing, and cultural understanding in
professional contexts, with emphasis on entertainment/culture. High-
level vocabulary and texts; dialect differences and formal language
styles (registers). Advanced structural analysis and history of
Filipino. LIHL 132F, LIHL 132W, and LIHL 132P may be taken in any order.
*/Prerequisites:/* upper-division standing or consent of instructor;
appropriate proficiency for level.

Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 113. Armenian for Armenian
Speakers (4)

For students who already comprehend informal spoken Armenian but wish to
improve their communicative and sociocultural competence and their
analytic understanding. Language functions for oral communication,
reading, writing, and culture; dialect and language style differences;
structure and history of Armenian. Some speaking ability in Armenian
recommended. */Prerequisites:/* upper-division standing or consent of
instructor.

Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 114F. Vietnamese for Vietnamese
Speakers (4)

For students who comprehend informal spoken Vietnamese but wish to
improve their communicative and sociocultural competence and their
analytic understanding. Language functions for oral communication,
reading, writing, and family life/festivals; dialect and language style
differences; structure and history of Vietnamese. LIHL 114F, LIHL 114W,
and LIHL 114P may be taken in any order. */Prerequisites:/* upper-
division standing or consent of instructor; appropriate proficiency for
level.

Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 114W. Vietnamese for Vietnamese
Speakers (4)

For students who comprehend informal spoken Vietnamese but wish to
improve their communicative and sociocultural competence and their
analytic understanding. Language functions for oral communication,
reading, writing, and media/arts; dialect and language style
differences; structure and history of Vietnamese. LIHL 114F, LIHL 114W,
and LIHL 114P may be taken in any order. */Prerequisites:/* upper-
division standing or consent of instructor; appropriate proficiency for
level.

Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 114P. Vietnamese for Vietnamese
Speakers (4)

For students who comprehend informal spoken Vietnamese but wish to
improve their communicative and sociocultural competence and their
analytic understanding. Language functions for oral communication,
reading, writing, and entertainment/culture; dialect and language style
differences; structure and history of Vietnamese. LIHL 114F, LIHL 114W,
and LIHL 114P may be taken in any order. *//Prerequisites://* upper-
division standing or consent of instructor; appropriate proficiency for
level.

Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 124F. Intermediate Vietnamese for
Vietnamese Speakers (4)

This course is designed to improve oral and written skills in the
context of Vietnamese domestic culture. For students with basic
proficiency in spoken and written Vietnamese, but who require
improvement in basic grammar, word choice, punctuation, and spelling.
LIHL 124F, LIHL 124W, and LIHL 124P may be taken in any order. *//
Prerequisites://* upper-division standing or consent of instructor;
appropriate proficiency for level.

Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 124W. Intermediate Vietnamese for
Vietnamese Speakers (4)

This course is designed to improve oral and written skills in the
context of Vietnamese domestic culture. For students with basic
proficiency in spoken and written Vietnamese, but who require
improvement in basic grammar, word choice, punctuation, and spelling.
LIHL 124F, LIHL 124W, and LIHL 124P may be taken in any order. *//
Prerequisites://* upper-division standing or consent of instructor;
appropriate proficiency for level.

Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 124P. Intermediate Vietnamese for
Vietnamese Speakers (4)

This course is designed to improve oral and written skills in the
context of Vietnamese domestic culture. For students with basic
proficiency in spoken and written Vietnamese, but who require
improvement in basic grammar, word choice, punctuation, and spelling.
LIHL 124F, LIHL 124W, and LIHL 124P may be taken in any order. *//
Prerequisites://* upper-division standing or consent of instructor;
appropriate proficiency for level.

Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 134F. Advanced Vietnamese for
Vietnamese Speakers (4)

Instruction stresses language function required for advanced oral
communication, reading, writing, and cultural understanding in
professional contexts, with emphasis on domestic culture. High-level
vocabulary and texts; dialect differences and formal language styles
(registers). Advanced structural analysis and history of Vietnamese.
LIHL 134F, LIHL 134W, and LIHL 134P may be taken in any order. */
Prerequisites:/* upper-division standing or consent of instructor;
appropriate proficiency for level.

Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 134W. Advanced Vietnamese for
Vietnamese Speakers (4)

Instruction stresses language function required for advanced oral
communication, reading, writing, and cultural understanding in
professional contexts, with emphasis on media/arts. High-level
vocabulary and texts; dialect differences and formal language styles
(registers). Advanced structural analysis and history of Vietnamese.
LIHL 134F, LIHL 134W, and LIHL 134P may be taken in any order. */
Prerequisites:/* upper-division standing or consent of instructor;
appropriate proficiency for level.

Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 134P. Advanced Vietnamese for
Vietnamese Speakers (4)

Instruction stresses language function required for advanced oral
communication, reading, writing, and cultural understanding in
professional contexts, with emphasis on entertainment/culture. High-
level vocabulary and texts; dialect differences and formal language
styles (registers). Advanced structural analysis and history of
Vietnamese. LIHL 134F, LIHL 134W, and LIHL 134P may be taken in any
order. */Prerequisites:/* upper-division standing or consent of
instructor; appropriate proficiency for level.

Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 115F. Korean for Korean Speakers (4)

For students who comprehend informal spoken Korean but wish to improve
their communicative and sociocultural competence and their analytic
understanding. Language functions for oral communication, reading,
writing, and family life/festivals; dialect and language style
differences; structure and history of Korean. LIHL 115F, LIHL 115W, and
LIHL 115P may be taken in any order. */Prerequisites:/* upper-division
standing or consent of instructor; appropriate proficiency for level.

Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 115W. Korean for Korean Speakers (4)

For students who comprehend informal spoken Korean but wish to improve
their communicative and sociocultural competence and their analytic
understanding. Language functions for oral communication, reading,
writing, and media/arts; dialect and language style differences;
structure and history of Korean. LIHL 115F, LIHL 115W, and LIHL 115P may
be taken in any order. */Prerequisites:/* upper-division standing or
consent of instructor; appropriate proficiency for level.

Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 115P. Korean for Korean Speakers (4)

For students who comprehend informal spoken Korean but wish to improve
their communicative and sociocultural competence and their analytic
understanding. Language functions for oral communication, reading,
writing, and entertainment/culture; dialect and language style
differences; structure and history of Korean. LIHL 115F, LIHL 115W, and
LIHL 115P may be taken in any order. */Prerequisites:/* upper-division
standing or consent of instructor; appropriate proficiency for level.

Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 135F. Advanced Korean for Korean
Speakers (4)

Instruction stresses language function required for advanced oral
communication, reading, writing, and cultural understanding in
professional contexts, with emphasis on domestic culture. High-level
vocabulary and texts; dialect differences and formal language styles
(registers). Advanced structural analysis and history of Korean LIHL
135F, LIHL 135W, and LIHL 135P may be taken in any order. */
Prerequisites:/* upper-division standing or consent of instructor;
appropriate proficiency for level.

Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 135W. Advanced Korean for Korean
Speakers (4)

Instruction stresses language function required for advanced oral
communication, reading, writing, and cultural understanding in
professional contexts, with emphasis on media/arts. High-level
vocabulary and texts; dialect differences and formal language styles
(registers). Advanced structural analysis and history of Korean. LIHL
135F, LIHL 135W, and LIHL 135P may be taken in any order.*/
Prerequisites:/* upper-division standing or consent of instructor;
appropriate proficiency for level.

Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 135P. Advanced Korean for Korean
Speakers (4)

Instruction stresses language function required for advanced oral
communication, reading, writing, and cultural understanding in
professional contexts, with emphasis on entertainment/culture. High-
level vocabulary and texts; dialect differences and formal language
styles (registers). Advanced structural analysis and history of Korean.
LIHL 135F, LIHL 135W, and LIHL 135P may be taken in any order.*/
Prerequisites:/* upper-division standing or consent of instructor;
appropriate proficiency for level.

Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 116F. Arabic for Arabic Speakers (4)

For students who comprehend informal spoken Arabic but wish to improve
their communicative and sociocultural competence and their analytic
understanding. Language functions for oral communication, reading,
writing, and family life/festivals; dialect and language style
differences; structure and history of Arabic. LIHL 116F, LIHL 116W, and
LIHL 116P may be taken in any order. */Prerequisites:/* upper-division
standing or consent of instructor; appropriate proficiency for level.

Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 116W. Arabic for Arabic Speakers (4)

For students who comprehend informal spoken Arabic but wish to improve
their communicative and sociocultural competence and their analytic
understanding. Language functions for oral communication, reading,
writing, and media/arts; dialect and language style differences;
structure and history of Arabic. LIHL 116F, LIHL 116W, and LIHL 116P may
be taken in any order. */Prerequisites:/* upper-division standing or
consent of instructor; appropriate proficiency for level.

Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 116P. Arabic for Arabic Speakers (4)

For students who comprehend informal spoken Arabic but wish to improve
their communicative and sociocultural competence and their analytic
understanding. Language functions for oral communication, reading,
writing, and entertainment/culture; dialect and language style
differences; structure and history of Arabic. LIHL 116F, LIHL 116W, and
LIHL 116P may be taken in any order. */Prerequisites:/* upper-division
standing or consent of instructor; appropriate proficiency for level.

Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 136. Advanced Arabic for Arabic
Speakers (4)

Instruction stresses language functions required for advanced oral
communication, reading, writing, and cultural understanding in
professional contexts. High-level vocabulary and texts; dialect
differences and formal language styles (registers). Advanced structural
analysis and history of Arabic. */Prerequisites:/* upper-division
standing or consent of instructor.

Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 117F. Persian for Persian Speakers (4)

For students who comprehend informal spoken Persian but wish to improve
their communicative and sociocultural competence and their analytic
understanding. Language functions for oral communication, reading,
writing, and family life/festivals; dialect and language style
differences; structure and history of Persian. LIHL 117F, LIHL 117W, and
LIHL 117P may be taken in any order. */Prerequisites:/* upper-division
standing or consent of instructor; appropriate proficiency for level.

Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 117W. Persian for Persian Speakers (4)

For students who comprehend informal spoken Persian but wish to improve
their communicative and sociocultural competence and their analytic
understanding. Language functions for oral communication, reading,
writing, and media/arts; dialect and language style differences;
structure and history of Persian. LIHL 117F, LIHL 117W, and LIHL 117P
may be taken in any order. */Prerequisites:/* upper-division standing or
consent of instructor; appropriate proficiency for level.

Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 117P. Persian for Persian Speakers (4)

For students who comprehend informal spoken Persian but wish to improve
their communicative and sociocultural competence and their analytic
understanding. Language functions for oral communication, reading,
writing, and entertainment/culture; dialect and language style
differences; structure and history of Persian. LIHL 117F, LIHL 117W, and
LIHL 117P may be taken in any order. */Prerequisites:/* upper-division
standing or consent of instructor; appropriate proficiency for level.

Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 137F. Advanced Persian for Persian
Speakers (4)

Instruction stresses language function required for advanced oral
communication, reading, writing, and cultural understanding in
professional contexts, with emphasis on domestic culture. High-level
vocabulary and texts; dialect differences and formal language styles
(registers). Advanced structural analysis and history of Persian. LIHL
137F, LIHL 137W, and LIHL 137P may be taken in any order.*/
Prerequisites:/* upper-division standing or consent of instructor;
appropriate proficiency for level.

Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 137W. Advanced Persian for Persian
Speakers (4)

Instruction stresses language function required for advanced oral
communication, reading, writing, and cultural understanding in
professional contexts, with emphasis on media/arts. High-level
vocabulary and texts; dialect differences and formal language styles
(registers). Advanced structural analysis and history of Persian. LIHL
137F, LIHL 137W, and LIHL 137P may be taken in any order.*/
Prerequisites:/* upper-division standing or consent of instructor;
appropriate proficiency for level.

Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 137P. Advanced Persian for Persian
Speakers (4)

Instruction stresses language function required for advanced oral
communication, reading, writing, and cultural understanding in
professional contexts, with emphasis on entertainment/culture. High-
level vocabulary and texts; dialect differences and formal language
styles (registers). Advanced structural analysis and history of Persian.
LIHL 137F, LIHL 137W, and LIHL 137P may be taken in any order.*/
Prerequisites:/* upper-division standing or consent of instructor;
appropriate proficiency for level.

Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 118. Cantonese for Cantonese
Speakers (4)

For students who already comprehend informal spoken Cantonese but wish
to improve their communicative and sociocultural competence and their
analytic understanding. Language functions for oral communication,
reading, writing, and culture; dialect and language style differences;
structure and history of Cantonese. Some speaking ability in Cantonese
recommended. */Prerequisites:/* upper-division standing or consent of
instructor.

Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 138. Advanced Cantonese for
Cantonese Speakers (4)

Instruction stresses language functions required for advanced oral
communication, reading, writing, and cultural understanding in
professional contexts. High-level vocabulary and texts; dialect
differences and formal language styles (registers). Advanced structural
analysis and history of Cantonese. */Prerequisites:/* upper-division
standing or consent of instructor.

Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 119F. Hindi for Hindi Speakers (4)

For students who comprehend informal spoken Hindi but wish to improve
their communicative and sociocultural competence and their analytic
understanding. Language functions for oral communication, reading,
writing, and family life/festivals; dialect and language style
differences; structure and history of Hindi. LIHL 119F, LIHL 119W, and
LIHL 119P may be taken in any order. */Prerequisites:/* upper-division
standing or consent of instructor; appropriate proficiency for level.

Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 119W. Hindi for Hindi Speakers (4)

For students who comprehend informal spoken Hindi but wish to improve
their communicative and sociocultural competence and their analytic
understanding. Language functions for oral communication, reading,
writing, and family media/arts; dialect and language style differences;
structure and history of Hindi. LIHL 119F, LIHL 119W, and LIHL 119P may
be taken in any order. */Prerequisites:/* upper-division standing or
consent of instructor; appropriate proficiency for level.

Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 119P. Hindi for Hindi Speakers (4)

For students who comprehend informal spoken Hindi but wish to improve
their communicative and sociocultural competence and their analytic
understanding. Language functions for oral communication, reading,
writing, and entertainment/culture; dialect and language style
differences; structure and history of Hindi. LIHL 119F, LIHL 119W, and
LIHL 119P may be taken in any order. */Prerequisites:/* upper-division
standing or consent of instructor; appropriate proficiency for level.

Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 139F. Advanced Hindi for Hindi
Speakers (4)

Instruction stresses language function required for advanced oral
communication, reading, writing, and cultural understanding in
professional contexts, with emphasis on domestic culture. High-level
vocabulary and texts; dialect differences and formal language styles
(registers). Advanced structural analysis and history of Hindi. LIHL
139F, LIHL 139W, and LIHL 139P may be taken in any order.*/
Prerequisites:/* upper-division standing or consent of instructor;
appropriate proficiency for level.

Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 139W. Advanced Hindi for Hindi
Speakers (4)

Instruction stresses language function required for advanced oral
communication, reading, writing, and cultural understanding in
professional contexts, with emphasis on media/arts. High-level
vocabulary and texts; dialect differences and formal language styles
(registers). Advanced structural analysis and history of Hindi. LIHL
139F, LIHL 139W, and LIHL 139P may be taken in any order.*/
Prerequisites:/* upper-division standing or consent of instructor;
appropriate proficiency for level.

Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 139P. Advanced Hindi for Hindi
Speakers (4)

Instruction stresses language function required for advanced oral
communication, reading, writing, and cultural understanding in
professional contexts, with emphasis on entertainment/culture. High-
level vocabulary and texts; dialect differences and formal language
styles (registers). Advanced structural analysis and history of Hindi.
LIHL 139F, LIHL 139W, and LIHL 139P may be taken in any order.*/
Prerequisites:/* upper-division standing or consent of instructor;
appropriate proficiency for level.


      HINDI

See also Linguistics “Heritage Language Program <#HLP>.”

Linguistics/Hindi (LIHI) 1A. Hindi Conversation (2.5)

Small conversation sections taught entirely in the target language.
Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building,
reading, and culture. Must be taken in conjunction with LIHI 1AX. */
Prerequisites:/* no prior study of Hindi.

Linguistics/Hindi (LIHI) 1AX. Analysis of Hindi (2.5)

Presentation and practice of the basic grammatical structures needed for
oral and written communication and for reading. This course is taught
entirely in Hindi. Must be taken in conjunction with LIHI 1A. */
Prerequisites:/* no prior study of Hindi.

Linguistics/Hindi (LIHI) 1B. Hindi Conversation (2.5)

Small conversation sections taught entirely in the target language.
Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building,
reading, and culture. Must be taken in conjunction with LIHI 1BX. */
Prerequisites:/* LIHI 1A with a grade of C– or better, or equivalent and
LIHI 1AX with a grade of D or better, or equivalent.

Linguistics/Hindi (LIHI) 1BX. Analysis of Hindi (2.5)

Presentation and practice of the basic grammatical structures needed for
oral and written communication and for reading. This course is taught
entirely in Hindi. Must be taken in conjunction with LIHI 1B. */
Prerequisites:/* LIHI 1A with a grade of C– or better, or equivalent and
LIHI 1AX with a grade of D or better, or equivalent.

Linguistics/Hindi (LIHI) 1C. Hindi Conversation (2.5)

Small conversation sections taught entirely in the target language.
Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building,
reading, and culture. Must be taken in conjunction with LIHI 1CX. */
Prerequisites:/* LIHI 1B with a grade of C– or better, or equivalent and
LIHI 1BX with a grade of D or better, or equivalent.

Linguistics/Hindi (LIHI) 1CX. Analysis of Hindi (2.5)

Presentation and practice of the basic grammatical structures needed for
oral and written communication and for reading. This course is taught
entirely in Hindi. Must be taken in conjunction with LIHI 1C. */
Prerequisites:/* LIHI 1B with a grade of C– or better, or equivalent and
LIHI 1BX with a grade of D or better, or equivalent.

Linguistics/Hindi (LIHI) 1D. Hindi Conversation (2.5)

Small conversation sections taught entirely in the target language.
Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building,
reading, and culture. Must be taken in conjunction with LIHI 1DX. */
Prerequisites:/* LIHI 1C with a grade of C– or better, or equivalent and
LIHI 1CX with a grade of D or better, or equivalent.

Linguistics/Hindi (LIHI) 1DX. Analysis of Hindi (2.5)

Presentation and practice of the basic grammatical structures needed for
oral and written communication and for reading. This course is taught
entirely in Hindi. Must be taken in conjunction with LIHI 1D. */
Prerequisites:/* LIHI 1C with a grade of C– or better, or equivalent and
LIHI 1CX with a grade of D or better, or equivalent.


      ITALIAN

Linguistics/Italian (LIIT) 1A. Italian Conversation (2.5)

Small conversation sections taught entirely in the target language.
Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building,
reading, and culture. Must be taken in conjunction with LIIT 1AX. */
Prerequisites:/* no prior study of Italian.

Linguistics/Italian (LIIT) 1AX. Analysis of Italian (2.5)

Presentation and practice of the basic grammatical structures needed for
oral and written communication and for reading. The course is taught
entirely in Italian. Must be taken with LIIT 1A. */Prerequisites:/* no
prior study of Italian.

Linguistics/Italian (LIIT) 1B. Italian Conversation (2.5)

Small conversation sections taught entirely in the target language.
Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building,
reading, and culture. Must be taken in conjunction with LIIT 1BX. */
Prerequisites:/* LIIT 1A with a grade of C– or better, or equivalent and
LIIT 1AX with a grade of D or better, or equivalent.

Linguistics/Italian (LIIT) 1BX. Analysis of Italian (2.5)

Presentation and practice of the basic grammatical structures needed for
oral and written communication and for reading. The course is taught
entirely in Italian. Must be taken with LIIT 1B. */Prerequisites:/* LIIT
1A with a grade of C– or better, or equivalent and LIIT 1AX with a grade
of D or better, or equivalent.

Linguistics/Italian (LIIT) 1C. Italian Conversation (2.5)

Small conversation sections taught entirely in the target language.
Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building,
reading, and culture. Must be taken in conjunction with LIIT 1CX. */
Prerequisites:/* LIIT 1B with a grade of C– or better, or equivalent and
LIIT 1BX with a grade of D or better, or equivalent.

Linguistics/Italian (LIIT) 1CX. Analysis of Italian (2.5)

Presentation and practice of the basic grammatical structures needed for
oral and written communication and for reading. The course is taught
entirely in Italian. Must be taken with LIIT 1C. */Prerequisites:/* LIIT
1B with a grade of C– or better, or equivalent and LIIT 1BX with a grade
of D or better, or equivalent.

Linguistics/Italian (LIIT) 1D. Italian Conversation (2.5)

Small conversation sections taught entirely in the target language.
Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building,
reading, and culture. Must be taken in conjunction with LIIT 1DX. /
Successful completion of LIIT 1D and LIIT 1DX satisfies the requirement
for language proficiency in Revelle and Eleanor Roosevelt Colleges. /*/
Prerequisites:/ *LIIT 1C and LIIT 1CX, or equivalent.

Linguistics/Italian (LIIT) 1DX. Analysis of Italian (2.5)

Practice of the grammatical functions indispensable for comprehensible
communication in the language. The course is taught entirely in Italian.
Must be taken in conjunction with LIIT 1D. /Successful completion of
LIIT 1D and LIIT 1DX satisfies the requirement for language proficiency
in Revelle and Eleanor Roosevelt Colleges. /*/Prerequisites:/* LIIT 1C
and LIIT 1CX, or equivalent.

Linguistics/Italian (LIIT) 5AS. Fundamentals of Italian I (5)

A communicative introduction to Italian for students with no prior
exposure, with attention to listening comprehension, conversation,
reading, writing, grammar analysis, and culture. Equivalent to LIIT
1A/1AX. */Prerequisites:/* None.

Linguistics/Italian (LIIT) 5BS. Fundamentals of Italian II (5)

A course to increase the proficiency level of students who have
completed LIIT 1A/1AX, 5AS or who are at an equivalent level. Attention
to listening comprehension, conversation, reading, writing, grammar
analysis, and culture. Equivalent to LIIT 1B/1BX. */Prerequisites:/*
LIIT 1A/1AX, 5AS or consent of instructor.

Linguistics/Italian (LIIT) 5CS. Fundamentals of Italian III (5)

A course to increase the proficiency level of students who have
completed LIIT 1B/1BX, 5BS or who are at an equivalent level. Attention
to listening comprehension, conversation, reading, writing, grammar
analysis, and culture. Equivalent to LIIT 1C/1CX. */Prerequisites:/*
LIIT 1B/1BX, 5BS or consent of instructor.

Linguistics/Italian (LIIT) 5DS. Fundamentals of Italian IV (5)

A course to increase the proficiency level of students who have
completed LIIT 1C/1CX, 5CS or who are at an equivalent level. Attention
to listening comprehension, conversation, reading, writing, grammar
analysis, and culture. Equivalent to LIIT1D/1DX. */Prerequisites:/ *LIIT
1C/1CX, 5CS or equivalent or consent of instructor.

See also “Department of Literature <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/courses/
LIT.html>.”


      JAPANESE

See “Japanese Studies <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/courses/JAPN.html>.”

See also Linguistics “Directed Study <#DS>.”


      LATIN

See “Department of Literature <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/courses/LIT.html>.”


      PORTUGUESE

Linguistics/Portuguese (LIPO) 1A. Portuguese Conversation (2.5)

Small conversation sections taught entirely in the target language.
Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building,
reading, and culture. Emphasis on the language and culture of Brazil.
Must be taken in conjunction with LIPO 1AX. */Prerequisites:/* no prior
study of Portuguese.

Linguistics/Portuguese (LIPO) 1AX. Analysis of Portuguese (2.5)

Presentation and practice of the basic grammatical structures needed for
oral and written communication and reading. The course is taught
entirely in Portuguese. Must be taken in conjunction with LIPO 1A. */
Prerequisites:/* no prior study of Portuguese.

Linguistics/Portuguese (LIPO) 1B. Portuguese Conversation (2.5)

Small conversation sections taught entirely in the target language.
Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building,
reading, and culture. Emphasis on the language and culture of Brazil.
Must be taken in conjunction with LIPO 1BX. */Prerequisites:/* LIPO 1A
with a grade of C– or better or equivalent and LIPO 1AX with a grade of
D or better, or equivalent.

Linguistics/Portuguese (LIPO) 1BX. Analysis of Portuguese (2.5)

Presentation and practice of the basic grammatical structures needed for
oral and written communication and reading. The course is taught
entirely in Portuguese. Must be taken in conjunction with LIPO 1B. */
Prerequisites:/* LIPO 1A with a grade of C– or better or equivalent and
LIPO 1AX with a grade of D or better, or equivalent.

Linguistics/Portuguese (LIPO) 1C. Portuguese Conversation (2.5)

Small conversation sections taught entirely in the target language.
Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building,
reading, and culture. Emphasis on the language and culture of Brazil.
Must be taken in conjunction with LIPO 1CX. */Prerequisites:/* LIPO 1B
with a grade of C– or better or equivalent and LIPO 1BX with a grade of
D or better, or equivalent.

Linguistics/Portuguese (LIPO) 1CX. Analysis of Portuguese (2.5)

Presentation and practice of the basic grammatical structures needed for
oral and written communication and reading. The course is taught
entirely in Portuguese. Must be taken in conjunction with LIPO 1C. */
Prerequisites:/* LIPO 1B with a grade of C– or better or equivalent and
LIPO 1BX with a grade of D or better, or equivalent.

Linguistics/Portuguese (LIPO) 1D. Portuguese Conversation (2.5)

Small conversion sections taught entirely in the target language.
Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building,
reading, and culture. Must be taken in conjunction with LIPO 1DX.
Successful completion of LIPO 1D and LIPO 1DX satisfies the requirement
for language proficiency in Revelle and Eleanor Roosevelt Colleges. */
Prerequisites:/* LIPO 1C with a grade of C– or better, or equivalent and
LIPO 1CX with a grade of D or better, or equivalent.

Linguistics/Portuguese (LIPO) 1DX. Analysis of Portuguese (2.5)

Practice of the grammatical functions indispensable for comprehensible
communication in the language. The course is taught entirely in
Portuguese. Must be taken in conjunction with LIPO 1D. Successful
completion of LIPO 1D and LIPO 1DX satisfies the requirement for
language proficiency in Revelle and Eleanor Roosevelt Colleges. */
Prerequisites:/* LIPO 1C with a grade of C– or better or equivalent and
LIPO 1CX with a grade of D or better, or equivalent.

Linguistics/Portuguese (LIPO) 15. Intermediate Brazilian Portuguese for
the Social Sciences: Social Movements (2.0)

Conducted entirely in Portuguese. Course aims to improve oral language
skills through discussions of social science topics, with emphasis on
social and political movements in contemporary Brazil. Course materials
may encompass televised news broadcasts, newspapers, and periodicals. */
Prerequisites:/ *LIPO 1D and 1DX or equivalent or by consent of the
instructor.

Linguistics/Portuguese (LIPO) 16. Intermediate Brazilian Portuguese for
the Social Sciences: Cultural Movements (2.0)

Conducted entirely in Portuguese. Course aims to improve oral language
skills through discussions of social science topics, with emphasis on
culture and the arts in contemporary Brazil. Course materials may
encompass televised news broadcasts, newspapers, and periodicals. */
Prerequisites:/ *LIPO 1D and 1DX or equivalent or by consent of instructor.

Linguistics/Portuguese (LIPO) 17. Intermediate Brazilian Portuguese for
the Social Sciences: Ethnicity (2.0)

Conducted entirely in Portuguese. Course aims to improve oral language
skills through discussions of social science topics, with emphasis on
the role of ethnicity in contemporary Brazil. Course materials may
encompass televised news broadcasts, newspapers and periodicals. */
Prerequisites:/ *LIPO 1D and 1DX or equivalent or by consent of instructor.


      RUSSIAN

See “Department of Literature <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/courses/
LIT.html><https://catalog.ucsd.edu/courses/LIT.html>.”

See also Linguistics “Directed Study <#DS>.”


      SPANISH

Linguistics/Spanish (LISP) 1A. Spanish Conversation (2.5)

Small conversation sections taught entirely in the target language.
Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building,
reading, and culture. Must be taken in conjunction with LISP 1AX. */
Prerequisites:/* no prior study of Spanish.

Linguistics/Spanish (LISP) 1AX. Analysis of Spanish (2.5)

Presentation and practice of the basic grammatical structures needed for
oral and written communication and for reading. The course is taught
entirely in Spanish. Must be taken with LISP 1A. */Prerequisites:/* no
prior study of Spanish.

Linguistics/Spanish (LISP) 1B. Spanish Conversation (2.5)

Small conversation sections taught entirely in the target language.
Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building,
reading, and culture. Must be taken in conjunction with LISP 1BX. */
Prerequisites:/* LISP 1A with a grade of C– or better, or equivalent and
LISP 1AX with a grade of D or better, or equivalent.

Linguistics/Spanish (LISP) 1BX. Analysis of Spanish (2.5)

Presentation and practice of the basic grammatical structures needed for
oral and written communication and for reading. The course is taught
entirely in Spanish. Must be taken with LISP 1B. */Prerequisites:/* LISP
1A with a grade of C– or better, or equivalent and LISP 1AX with a grade
of D or better, or equivalent.

Linguistics/Spanish (LISP) 1C. Spanish Conversation (2.5)

Small conversation sections taught entirely in the target language.
Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building,
reading, and culture. Must be taken in conjunction with LISP 1CX. */
Prerequisites:/* LISP 1B with a grade of C– or better, or equivalent and
LISP 1BX with a grade of D or better, or equivalent.

Linguistics/Spanish (LISP) 1CX. Analysis of Spanish (2.5)

Presentation and practice of the basic grammatical structures needed for
oral and written communication and for reading. The course is taught
entirely in Spanish. Must be taken with LISP 1C. */Prerequisites:/* LISP
1B with a grade of C– or better, or equivalent and LISP 1BX with a grade
of D or better, or equivalent.

Linguistics/Spanish (LISP) 1D. Spanish Conversation (2.5)

Small conversation sections taught entirely in Spanish. Emphasis on
speaking, reading, writing, and culture. Practice of the language
functions needed for successful communication. Must be taken in
conjunction with LISP 1DX. Successful completion of LISP 1D and LISP 1DX
satisfies the requirement for language proficiency in Eleanor Roosevelt
and Revelle Colleges. */Prerequisites:/* LISP 1C with a grade of C– or
better, or equivalent and LISP 1CX with a grade of D or better, or
equivalent.

Linguistics/Spanish (LISP) 1DX. Analysis of Spanish (2.5)

Practice of the grammatical functions indispensable for comprehensible
communication in the language. The course is taught entirely in Spanish.
Must be taken in conjunction with LISP 1D. Successful completion of LISP
1D and LISP 1DX satisfies the requirement for language proficiency in
Eleanor Roosevelt and Revelle Colleges. */Prerequisites:/* LISP 1C with
a grade of C– or better, or equivalent and LISP 1CX with a grade of D or
better, or equivalent.

Linguistics/Spanish (LISP) 5A, 5B, 5C, 5D. Fundamentals of Spanish (5)

This course concentrates on those language skills essential for
communication: listening comprehension, conversation, reading, writing,
and grammar analysis. UC San Diego students: LISP 5A is equivalent to
LISP 1A/1AX, LISP 5B to LISP 5B/5BX, LISP 5C to LISP 1C/1CX and LISP 5D
to LISP 1D/1DX. Enrollment is limited. */Prerequisites:/* none for 5A;
for 5B, two or more years of Spanish in high school or the first
semester or the first quarter of college-level Spanish. (Offered in
Summer Session only.)

Linguistics/Spanish (LISP) 15, 16, 17. Intermediate Spanish for the
Social Sciences (2)

Conducted entirely in Spanish. Course aims to improve oral language
skills through discussions of social science topics, with emphasis on
political events and current affairs. Course materials encompass
televised news broadcasts, newspapers and periodicals. LISP 15 is
offered fall quarter only, LISP 16 is offered winter quarter only, and
LISP 17 is offered spring quarter only. Each course may be taken one
time and need not be taken in sequence. */Prerequisites:/* LISP 1D/DX or
at least three semesters/four quarters of college Spanish or by
permission of the instructor.

Linguistics/Spanish (LISP) 18. Intermediate Spanish for the Health
Sciences (2)

An intermediate-level course on Spanish as used in the health sciences,
especially in clinical and field settings. Attention to listening,
speaking, relevant vocabulary, cultural knowledge, reading, and writing.
May be taken for credit up to two times. *//Prerequisites://* LISP 1D/DX.

See also “Department of Literature <https://catalog.ucsd.edu/courses/
LIT.html>.”


      DIRECTED STUDY

Linguistics (LIDS) 19. Directed Study—Language (2–4)

Introductory-level study of a language in the language laboratory on a
self-instructional basis. Depending on the availability of appropriate
study materials, the course may be taken in blocks of two or four units
of credit and may be repeated up to the total number of units available
for that language.

  * Albanian
  * American Sign Language
  * Amharic
  * Arabic, Eastern
  * Arabic, Egyptian
  * Arabic, Iraqi
  * Arabic, Moroccan
  * Arabic, Saudi
  * Armenian, Eastern
  * Bengali
  * Bulgarian
  * Burmese
  * Cambodian
  * Catalan
  * Chinese, Cantonese
  * Chinese, Mandarin
  * Chinyanja
  * Cree
  * Czech
  * Danish
  * Dutch
  * Esperanto

	

  * Finnish
  * French
  * Fula
  * German
  * Greek, Modern
  * Haitian Creole
  * Hausa
  * Hawaiian
  * Hebrew, Modern
  * Hindi-Urdu
  * Hungarian
  * Indonesian
  * Irish
  * Italian
  * Japanese
  * Kannada
  * Kituba
  * Korean
  * Latin
  * Latvian
  * Lithuanian
  * Malay

	

  * Navajo
  * New Guinea Pidgin
  * Norwegian
  * Persian
  * Polish
  * Portuguese
  * Romanian
  * Russian
  * Serbo-Croatian
  * Slovenian
  * Spanish
  * Swahili
  * Swedish
  * Tagalog
  * Taiwanese
  * Telugu
  * Thai
  * Tibetan
  * Turkish
  * Twi
  * Vietnamese
  * Yoruba

UC San Diego 9500 Gilman Dr. La Jolla, CA 92093 (858) 534-2230
Copyright © 2024 Regents of the University of California. All rights
reserved.

  * Accessibility <https://accessibility.ucsd.edu/report-a-concern/
    index.html>
  * Privacy Policy <https://ucsd.edu/about/privacy-policy.html>
  * Terms of Use <https://ucsd.edu/about/terms-of-use.html>
  * Feedback <https://act.ucsd.edu/cwp/feedback/tool/cwo>

UCSD homepage <https://ucsd.edu/>

